<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Acts 15</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Acts 15</span></div><div data-next="Acts.16" data-prev="Acts.14" data-progress="89.24%" data-shorttitle="" id="Acts.15" title="Acts 15">
<h2 id="Acts.15-p0.1">15</h2>
<p id="Acts.15-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.15.1" data-parsed="Acts_15_1_0_0" data-passage="Acts 15.1" id="Acts.15.1"/><sup>1</sup>And certain men came down from Judaea and taught the brethren,
<i>saying</i>, Except ye be circumcised after the custom of Moses, ye cannot be saved. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.15.2" data-parsed="Acts_15_2_0_0" data-passage="Acts 15.2" id="Acts.15.2"/><sup>2</sup>And when Paul and Barnabas had no small dissension and questioning with them, <i>the brethren</i> appointed that Paul and Barnabas,
and certain other of them, should go up to Jerusalem unto the apostles and elders about this question. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.15.3" data-parsed="Acts_15_3_0_0" data-passage="Acts 15.3" id="Acts.15.3"/><sup>3</sup>They therefore, being brought on their way by the church, passed through both Phoenicia and Samaria, declaring the conversion of the Gentiles: and they caused great joy unto all the brethren.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.15.4" data-parsed="Acts_15_4_0_0" data-passage="Acts 15.4" id="Acts.15.4"/><sup>4</sup>And when they were come to Jerusalem, they were received of the church and the apostles and the elders, and they rehearsed all things that God had done with them. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.15.5" data-parsed="Acts_15_5_0_0" data-passage="Acts 15.5" id="Acts.15.5"/><sup>5</sup>But there rose up certain of the sect of the Pharisees who believed, saying, It is needful to circumcise them, and to charge them to keep the law of Moses. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.15.6" data-parsed="Acts_15_6_0_0" data-passage="Acts 15.6" id="Acts.15.6"/><sup>6</sup>And the apostles and the elders were gathered together to consider of this matter. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.15.7" data-parsed="Acts_15_7_0_0" data-passage="Acts 15.7" id="Acts.15.7"/><sup>7</sup>And when there had been much questioning, Peter rose up, and said unto them, Brethren, ye know that a good while ago God made choice among you, that by my mouth the Gentiles should hear the word of the gospel, and believe. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.15.8" data-parsed="Acts_15_8_0_0" data-passage="Acts 15.8" id="Acts.15.8"/><sup>8</sup>And God, who knoweth the heart, bare them witness, giving them the Holy Spirit, even as he did unto us; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.15.9" data-parsed="Acts_15_9_0_0" data-passage="Acts 15.9" id="Acts.15.9"/><sup>9</sup>and he made no distinction between us and them, cleansing their hearts by faith. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.15.10" data-parsed="Acts_15_10_0_0" data-passage="Acts 15.10" id="Acts.15.10"/><sup>10</sup>Now therefore why make ye trial of God, that ye should put a yoke upon the neck of the disciples which neither our fathers nor we were able to bear? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.15.11" data-parsed="Acts_15_11_0_0" data-passage="Acts 15.11" id="Acts.15.11"/><sup>11</sup>But we believe that we shall be saved through the grace of the Lord Jesus, in like manner as they. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.15.12" data-parsed="Acts_15_12_0_0" data-passage="Acts 15.12" id="Acts.15.12"/><sup>12</sup>And all the multitude kept silence; and they hearkened unto Barnabas and Paul rehearsing what signs and wonders God had wrought among the Gentiles through them. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.15.13" data-parsed="Acts_15_13_0_0" data-passage="Acts 15.13" id="Acts.15.13"/><sup>13</sup>And after they had held their peace, James answered, saying, Brethren, hearken unto me:

<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.15.14" data-parsed="Acts_15_14_0_0" data-passage="Acts 15.14" id="Acts.15.14"/><sup>14</sup>Symeon hath rehearsed how first God visited the Gentiles, to take out of them a people for his name. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.15.15" data-parsed="Acts_15_15_0_0" data-passage="Acts 15.15" id="Acts.15.15"/><sup>15</sup>And to this agree the words of the prophets; as it is written,</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Acts.15-p2">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.15.16" data-parsed="Acts_15_16_0_0" data-passage="Acts 15.16" id="Acts.15.16"/><sup>16</sup>After these things I will return,</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Acts.15-p3">
And I will build again the tabernacle of David, which is fallen;</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Acts.15-p4">
And I will build again the ruins thereof,</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Acts.15-p5">
And I will set it up:</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Acts.15-p6">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.15.17" data-parsed="Acts_15_17_0_0" data-passage="Acts 15.17" id="Acts.15.17"/><sup>17</sup>That the residue of men may seek after the Lord,</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Acts.15-p7">
And all the Gentiles, upon whom my name is called,</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Acts.15-p8">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.15.18" data-parsed="Acts_15_18_0_0" data-passage="Acts 15.18" id="Acts.15.18"/><sup>18</sup>Saith the Lord, who maketh these things known from of old.</p>
<p id="Acts.15-p9">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.15.19" data-parsed="Acts_15_19_0_0" data-passage="Acts 15.19" id="Acts.15.19"/><sup>19</sup>Wherefore my judgment is, that we trouble not them that from among the Gentiles turn to God; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.15.20" data-parsed="Acts_15_20_0_0" data-passage="Acts 15.20" id="Acts.15.20"/><sup>20</sup>but that we write unto them, that they abstain from the pollutions of idols, and from fornication, and from what is strangled, and from blood. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.15.21" data-parsed="Acts_15_21_0_0" data-passage="Acts 15.21" id="Acts.15.21"/><sup>21</sup>For Moses from generations of old hath in every city them that preach him, being read in the synagogues every sabbath.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.15.22" data-parsed="Acts_15_22_0_0" data-passage="Acts 15.22" id="Acts.15.22"/><sup>22</sup>Then it seemed good to the apostles and the elders, with the whole church, to choose men out of their company, and send them to Antioch with Paul and Barnabas; <i>namely</i>, Judas called Barsabbas, and Silas, chief men among the brethren: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.15.23" data-parsed="Acts_15_23_0_0" data-passage="Acts 15.23" id="Acts.15.23"/><sup>23</sup>and they wrote <i>thus</i> by them, The apostles and the elders, brethren, unto the brethren who are of the Gentiles in Antioch and Syria and Cilicia, greeting: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.15.24" data-parsed="Acts_15_24_0_0" data-passage="Acts 15.24" id="Acts.15.24"/><sup>24</sup>Forasmuch as we have heard that certain who went out from us have troubled you with words, subverting your souls; to whom we gave no commandment; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.15.25" data-parsed="Acts_15_25_0_0" data-passage="Acts 15.25" id="Acts.15.25"/><sup>25</sup>it seemed good unto us,
having come to one accord, to choose out men and send them unto you with our beloved Barnabas and Paul, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.15.26" data-parsed="Acts_15_26_0_0" data-passage="Acts 15.26" id="Acts.15.26"/><sup>26</sup>men that have hazarded their lives for the name of our Lord Jesus Christ. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.15.27" data-parsed="Acts_15_27_0_0" data-passage="Acts 15.27" id="Acts.15.27"/><sup>27</sup>We have sent therefore Judas and Silas,
who themselves also shall tell you the same things by word of mouth.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.15.28" data-parsed="Acts_15_28_0_0" data-passage="Acts 15.28" id="Acts.15.28"/><sup>28</sup>For it seemed good to the Holy Spirit, and to us, to lay upon you no greater burden than these necessary things: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.15.29" data-parsed="Acts_15_29_0_0" data-passage="Acts 15.29" id="Acts.15.29"/><sup>29</sup>that ye abstain from things sacrificed to idols, and from blood, and from things strangled, and from fornication; from which if ye keep yourselves, it shall be well with you.
Fare ye well. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.15.30" data-parsed="Acts_15_30_0_0" data-passage="Acts 15.30" id="Acts.15.30"/><sup>30</sup>So they, when they were dismissed, came down to Antioch;
and having gathered the multitude together, they delivered the epistle.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.15.31" data-parsed="Acts_15_31_0_0" data-passage="Acts 15.31" id="Acts.15.31"/><sup>31</sup>And when they had read it, they rejoiced for the consolation. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.15.32" data-parsed="Acts_15_32_0_0" data-passage="Acts 15.32" id="Acts.15.32"/><sup>32</sup>And Judas and Silas, being themselves also prophets, exhorted the brethren with many words, and confirmed them. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.15.33" data-parsed="Acts_15_33_0_0" data-passage="Acts 15.33" id="Acts.15.33"/><sup>33</sup>And after they had spent some time <i>there</i>, they were dismissed in peace from the brethren unto those that had sent them forth. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.15.34" data-parsed="Acts_15_34_0_0" data-passage="Acts 15.34" id="Acts.15.34"/><sup>34</sup><i>But it seemed good unto Silas to abide there.</i>
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.15.35" data-parsed="Acts_15_35_0_0" data-passage="Acts 15.35" id="Acts.15.35"/><sup>35</sup>But Paul and Barnabas tarried in Antioch, teaching and preaching the word of the Lord, with many others also. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.15.36" data-parsed="Acts_15_36_0_0" data-passage="Acts 15.36" id="Acts.15.36"/><sup>36</sup>And after some days Paul said unto Barnabas, Let us return now and visit the brethren in every city wherein we proclaimed the word of the Lord, <i>and see</i> how they fare. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.15.37" data-parsed="Acts_15_37_0_0" data-passage="Acts 15.37" id="Acts.15.37"/><sup>37</sup>And Barnabas was minded to take with them John also, who was called Mark. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.15.38" data-parsed="Acts_15_38_0_0" data-passage="Acts 15.38" id="Acts.15.38"/><sup>38</sup>But Paul thought not good to take with them him who withdrew from them from Pamphylia, and went not with them to the work.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.15.39" data-parsed="Acts_15_39_0_0" data-passage="Acts 15.39" id="Acts.15.39"/><sup>39</sup>And there arose a sharp contention, so that they parted asunder one from the other, and Barnabas took Mark with him, and sailed away unto Cyprus;

<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.15.40" data-parsed="Acts_15_40_0_0" data-passage="Acts 15.40" id="Acts.15.40"/><sup>40</sup>but Paul choose Silas, and went forth, being commended by the brethren to the grace of the Lord. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.15.41" data-parsed="Acts_15_41_0_0" data-passage="Acts 15.41" id="Acts.15.41"/><sup>41</sup>And he went through Syria and Cilicia,
confirming the churches.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>