<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Acts 23</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Acts 23</span></div><div data-next="Acts.24" data-prev="Acts.22" data-progress="90.15%" data-shorttitle="" id="Acts.23" title="Acts 23">
<h2 id="Acts.23-p0.1">23</h2>
<p id="Acts.23-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.23.1" data-parsed="Acts_23_1_0_0" data-passage="Acts 23.1" id="Acts.23.1"/><sup>1</sup>And Paul, looking stedfastly on the council, said, Brethren, I have lived before God in all good conscience until this day. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.23.2" data-parsed="Acts_23_2_0_0" data-passage="Acts 23.2" id="Acts.23.2"/><sup>2</sup>And the high priest Ananias commanded them that stood by him to smite him on the mouth. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.23.3" data-parsed="Acts_23_3_0_0" data-passage="Acts 23.3" id="Acts.23.3"/><sup>3</sup>Then said Paul unto him, God shall smite thee, thou whited wall:
and sittest thou to judge me according to the law, and commandest me to be smitten contrary to the law? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.23.4" data-parsed="Acts_23_4_0_0" data-passage="Acts 23.4" id="Acts.23.4"/><sup>4</sup>And they that stood by said, Revilest thou God's high priest? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.23.5" data-parsed="Acts_23_5_0_0" data-passage="Acts 23.5" id="Acts.23.5"/><sup>5</sup>And Paul said, I knew not, brethren, that he was high priest: for it is written, Thou shalt not speak evil of a ruler of thy people. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.23.6" data-parsed="Acts_23_6_0_0" data-passage="Acts 23.6" id="Acts.23.6"/><sup>6</sup>But when Paul perceived that the one part were Sadducees and the other Pharisees, he cried out in the council, Brethren, I am a Pharisee, a son of Pharisees: touching the hope and resurrection of the dead I am called in question. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.23.7" data-parsed="Acts_23_7_0_0" data-passage="Acts 23.7" id="Acts.23.7"/><sup>7</sup>And when he had so said, there arose a dissension between the Pharisees and Sadducees; and the assembly was divided. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.23.8" data-parsed="Acts_23_8_0_0" data-passage="Acts 23.8" id="Acts.23.8"/><sup>8</sup>For the Sadducees say that there is no resurrection, neither angel, nor spirit; but the Pharisees confess both. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.23.9" data-parsed="Acts_23_9_0_0" data-passage="Acts 23.9" id="Acts.23.9"/><sup>9</sup>And there arose a great clamor: and some of the scribes of the Pharisees part stood up, and strove, saying, We find no evil in this man: and what if a spirit hath spoken to him, or an angel?

<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.23.10" data-parsed="Acts_23_10_0_0" data-passage="Acts 23.10" id="Acts.23.10"/><sup>10</sup>And when there arose a great dissension, the chief captain, fearing lest Paul should be torn in pieces by them, commanded the soldiers to go down and take him by force from among them, and bring him into the castle.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.23.11" data-parsed="Acts_23_11_0_0" data-passage="Acts 23.11" id="Acts.23.11"/><sup>11</sup>And the night following the Lord stood by him, and said, Be of good cheer: for as thou hast testified concerning me at Jerusalem, so must thou bear witness also at Rome. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.23.12" data-parsed="Acts_23_12_0_0" data-passage="Acts 23.12" id="Acts.23.12"/><sup>12</sup>And when it was day, the Jews banded together, and bound themselves under a curse, saying that they would neither eat nor drink till they had killed Paul. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.23.13" data-parsed="Acts_23_13_0_0" data-passage="Acts 23.13" id="Acts.23.13"/><sup>13</sup>And they were more than forty that made this conspiracy. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.23.14" data-parsed="Acts_23_14_0_0" data-passage="Acts 23.14" id="Acts.23.14"/><sup>14</sup>And they came to the chief priests and the elders, and said, We have bound ourselves under a great curse, to taste nothing until we have killed Paul. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.23.15" data-parsed="Acts_23_15_0_0" data-passage="Acts 23.15" id="Acts.23.15"/><sup>15</sup>Now therefore do ye with the council signify to the chief captain that he bring him down unto you, as though ye would judge of his case more exactly: and we, before he comes near, are ready to slay him. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.23.16" data-parsed="Acts_23_16_0_0" data-passage="Acts 23.16" id="Acts.23.16"/><sup>16</sup>But Paul's sister's son heard of their lying in wait, and he came and entered into the castle and told Paul. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.23.17" data-parsed="Acts_23_17_0_0" data-passage="Acts 23.17" id="Acts.23.17"/><sup>17</sup>And Paul called unto him one of the centurions, and said, Bring this young man unto the chief captain; for he hath something to tell him. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.23.18" data-parsed="Acts_23_18_0_0" data-passage="Acts 23.18" id="Acts.23.18"/><sup>18</sup>So he took him, and brought him to the chief captain, and saith, Paul the prisoner called me unto him,
and asked me to bring this young man unto thee, who hath something to say to thee. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.23.19" data-parsed="Acts_23_19_0_0" data-passage="Acts 23.19" id="Acts.23.19"/><sup>19</sup>And the chief captain took him by the hand, and going aside asked him privately, What is it that thou hast to tell me? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.23.20" data-parsed="Acts_23_20_0_0" data-passage="Acts 23.20" id="Acts.23.20"/><sup>20</sup>And he said, The Jews have agreed to ask thee to bring down Paul tomorrow unto the council, as though thou wouldest inquire somewhat more exactly concerning him. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.23.21" data-parsed="Acts_23_21_0_0" data-passage="Acts 23.21" id="Acts.23.21"/><sup>21</sup>Do not thou therefore yield unto them: for there lie in wait for him of them more than forty men, who have bound themselves under a curse, neither to eat nor to drink till they have slain him: and now are they ready, looking for the promise from thee. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.23.22" data-parsed="Acts_23_22_0_0" data-passage="Acts 23.22" id="Acts.23.22"/><sup>22</sup>So the chief captain let the young man go,
charging him, Tell no man that thou hast signified these things to me.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.23.23" data-parsed="Acts_23_23_0_0" data-passage="Acts 23.23" id="Acts.23.23"/><sup>23</sup>And he called unto him two of the centurions, and said, Make ready two hundred soldiers to go as far as Caesarea, and horsemen threescore and ten,
and spearmen two hundred, at the third hour of the night: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.23.24" data-parsed="Acts_23_24_0_0" data-passage="Acts 23.24" id="Acts.23.24"/><sup>24</sup>and <i>he bade them</i> provide beasts, that they might set Paul thereon, and bring him safe unto Felix the governor. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.23.25" data-parsed="Acts_23_25_0_0" data-passage="Acts 23.25" id="Acts.23.25"/><sup>25</sup>And he wrote a letter after this form:

<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.23.26" data-parsed="Acts_23_26_0_0" data-passage="Acts 23.26" id="Acts.23.26"/><sup>26</sup>Claudius Lysias unto the most excellent governor Felix, greeting.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.23.27" data-parsed="Acts_23_27_0_0" data-passage="Acts 23.27" id="Acts.23.27"/><sup>27</sup>This man was seized by the Jews, and was about to be slain of them,
when I came upon them with the soldiers and rescued him, having learned that he was a Roman. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.23.28" data-parsed="Acts_23_28_0_0" data-passage="Acts 23.28" id="Acts.23.28"/><sup>28</sup>And desiring to know the cause wherefore they accused him, I brought him down unto their council: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.23.29" data-parsed="Acts_23_29_0_0" data-passage="Acts 23.29" id="Acts.23.29"/><sup>29</sup>whom I found to be accused about questions of their law, but to have nothing laid to his charge worthy of death or of bonds. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.23.30" data-parsed="Acts_23_30_0_0" data-passage="Acts 23.30" id="Acts.23.30"/><sup>30</sup>And when it was shown to me that there would be a plot against the man, I sent him to thee forthwith, charging his accusers also to speak against him before thee. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.23.31" data-parsed="Acts_23_31_0_0" data-passage="Acts 23.31" id="Acts.23.31"/><sup>31</sup>So the soldiers, as it was commanded them, took Paul and brought him by night to Antipatris. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.23.32" data-parsed="Acts_23_32_0_0" data-passage="Acts 23.32" id="Acts.23.32"/><sup>32</sup>But on the morrow they left the horsemen to go with him, and returned to the castle: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.23.33" data-parsed="Acts_23_33_0_0" data-passage="Acts 23.33" id="Acts.23.33"/><sup>33</sup>and they, when they came to Caesarea and delivered the letter to the governor, presented Paul also before him. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.23.34" data-parsed="Acts_23_34_0_0" data-passage="Acts 23.34" id="Acts.23.34"/><sup>34</sup>And when he had read it, he asked of what province he was; and when he understood that he was of Cilicia, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.23.35" data-parsed="Acts_23_35_0_0" data-passage="Acts 23.35" id="Acts.23.35"/><sup>35</sup>I will hear thee fully, said he, when thine accusers also are come: and he commanded him to be kept in Herod's palace.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>