<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Acts 16</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Acts 16</span></div><div data-next="Acts.17" data-prev="Acts.15" data-progress="89.37%" data-shorttitle="" id="Acts.16" title="Acts 16">
<h2 id="Acts.16-p0.1">16</h2>
<p id="Acts.16-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.16.1" data-parsed="Acts_16_1_0_0" data-passage="Acts 16.1" id="Acts.16.1"/><sup>1</sup>And he came also to Derbe and to Lystra: and behold, a certain disciple was there, named Timothy, the son of a Jewess that believed; but his father was a Greek. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.16.2" data-parsed="Acts_16_2_0_0" data-passage="Acts 16.2" id="Acts.16.2"/><sup>2</sup>The same was well reported of by the brethren that were at Lystra and Iconium. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.16.3" data-parsed="Acts_16_3_0_0" data-passage="Acts 16.3" id="Acts.16.3"/><sup>3</sup>Him would Paul have to go forth with him;
and he took and circumcised him because of the Jews that were in those parts:
for they all knew that his father was a Greek. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.16.4" data-parsed="Acts_16_4_0_0" data-passage="Acts 16.4" id="Acts.16.4"/><sup>4</sup>And as they went on their way through the cities, they delivered them the decrees to keep which had been ordained of the apostles and elders that were at Jerusalem. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.16.5" data-parsed="Acts_16_5_0_0" data-passage="Acts 16.5" id="Acts.16.5"/><sup>5</sup>So the churches were strengthened in the faith, and increased in number daily.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.16.6" data-parsed="Acts_16_6_0_0" data-passage="Acts 16.6" id="Acts.16.6"/><sup>6</sup>And they went through the region of Phrygia and Galatia, having been forbidden of the Holy Spirit to speak the word in Asia; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.16.7" data-parsed="Acts_16_7_0_0" data-passage="Acts 16.7" id="Acts.16.7"/><sup>7</sup>and when they were come over against Mysia, they assayed to go into Bithynia; and the Spirit of Jesus suffered them not; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.16.8" data-parsed="Acts_16_8_0_0" data-passage="Acts 16.8" id="Acts.16.8"/><sup>8</sup>and passing by Mysia, they came down to Troas. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.16.9" data-parsed="Acts_16_9_0_0" data-passage="Acts 16.9" id="Acts.16.9"/><sup>9</sup>And a vision appeared to Paul in the night: There was a man of Macedonia standing, beseeching him, and saying, Come over into Macedonia, and help us. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.16.10" data-parsed="Acts_16_10_0_0" data-passage="Acts 16.10" id="Acts.16.10"/><sup>10</sup>And when he had seen the vision, straightway we sought to go forth into Macedonia, concluding that God had called us to preach the gospel to them. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.16.11" data-parsed="Acts_16_11_0_0" data-passage="Acts 16.11" id="Acts.16.11"/><sup>11</sup>Setting sail therefore from Troas, we made a straight course to Samothrace, and the day following to Neapolis; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.16.12" data-parsed="Acts_16_12_0_0" data-passage="Acts 16.12" id="Acts.16.12"/><sup>12</sup>and from thence to Philippi, which is a city of Macedonia, the first of the district, a <i>Roman</i> colony: and we were in this city tarrying certain days.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.16.13" data-parsed="Acts_16_13_0_0" data-passage="Acts 16.13" id="Acts.16.13"/><sup>13</sup>And on the sabbath day we went forth without the gate by a river side,
where we supposed there was a place of prayer; and we sat down, and spake unto the women that were come together. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.16.14" data-parsed="Acts_16_14_0_0" data-passage="Acts 16.14" id="Acts.16.14"/><sup>14</sup>And a certain woman named Lydia, a seller of purple of the city of Thyatira, one that worshipped God,
heard us: whose heart the Lord opened to give heed unto the things which were spoken by Paul. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.16.15" data-parsed="Acts_16_15_0_0" data-passage="Acts 16.15" id="Acts.16.15"/><sup>15</sup>And when she was baptized, and her household, she besought us, saying, If ye have judged me to be faithful to the Lord, come into my house, and abide <i>there</i>. And she constrained us. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.16.16" data-parsed="Acts_16_16_0_0" data-passage="Acts 16.16" id="Acts.16.16"/><sup>16</sup>And it came to pass, as we were going to the place of prayer, that a certain maid having a spirit of divination met us, who brought her masters much gain by soothsaying. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.16.17" data-parsed="Acts_16_17_0_0" data-passage="Acts 16.17" id="Acts.16.17"/><sup>17</sup>The same following after Paul and us cried out, saying,
These men are servants of the Most High God, who proclaim unto you the way of salvation. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.16.18" data-parsed="Acts_16_18_0_0" data-passage="Acts 16.18" id="Acts.16.18"/><sup>18</sup>And this she did for many days. But Paul, being sore troubled, turned and said to the spirit, I charge thee in the name of Jesus Christ to come out of her. And it came out that very hour. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.16.19" data-parsed="Acts_16_19_0_0" data-passage="Acts 16.19" id="Acts.16.19"/><sup>19</sup>But when her masters saw that the hope of their gain was gone, they laid hold on Paul and Silas, and dragged them into the marketplace before the rulers, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.16.20" data-parsed="Acts_16_20_0_0" data-passage="Acts 16.20" id="Acts.16.20"/><sup>20</sup>and when they had brought them unto the magistrates, they said, These men, being Jews, do exceedingly trouble our city, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.16.21" data-parsed="Acts_16_21_0_0" data-passage="Acts 16.21" id="Acts.16.21"/><sup>21</sup>and set forth customs which it is not lawful for us to receive, or to observe, being Romans. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.16.22" data-parsed="Acts_16_22_0_0" data-passage="Acts 16.22" id="Acts.16.22"/><sup>22</sup>And the multitude rose up together against them: and the magistrates rent their garments off them, and commanded to beat them with rods. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.16.23" data-parsed="Acts_16_23_0_0" data-passage="Acts 16.23" id="Acts.16.23"/><sup>23</sup>And when they had laid many stripes upon them, they cast them into prison, charging the jailor to keep them safely: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.16.24" data-parsed="Acts_16_24_0_0" data-passage="Acts 16.24" id="Acts.16.24"/><sup>24</sup>who, having received such a charge, cast them into the inner prison, and made their feet fast in the stocks. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.16.25" data-parsed="Acts_16_25_0_0" data-passage="Acts 16.25" id="Acts.16.25"/><sup>25</sup>But about midnight Paul and Silas were praying and singing hymns unto God, and the prisoners were listening to them; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.16.26" data-parsed="Acts_16_26_0_0" data-passage="Acts 16.26" id="Acts.16.26"/><sup>26</sup>and suddenly there was a great earthquake, so that the foundations of the prison-house were shaken: and immediately all the doors were opened, and every one's bands were loosed.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.16.27" data-parsed="Acts_16_27_0_0" data-passage="Acts 16.27" id="Acts.16.27"/><sup>27</sup>And the jailor, being roused out of sleep and seeing the prison doors open, drew his sword and was about to kill himself, supposing that the prisoners had escaped. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.16.28" data-parsed="Acts_16_28_0_0" data-passage="Acts 16.28" id="Acts.16.28"/><sup>28</sup>But Paul cried with a loud voice, saying, Do thyself no harm: for we are all here. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.16.29" data-parsed="Acts_16_29_0_0" data-passage="Acts 16.29" id="Acts.16.29"/><sup>29</sup>And he called for lights and sprang in, and, trembling for fear, fell down before Paul and Silas,

<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.16.30" data-parsed="Acts_16_30_0_0" data-passage="Acts 16.30" id="Acts.16.30"/><sup>30</sup>and brought them out and said, Sirs, what must I do to be saved?

<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.16.31" data-parsed="Acts_16_31_0_0" data-passage="Acts 16.31" id="Acts.16.31"/><sup>31</sup>And they said, Believe on the Lord Jesus, and thou shalt be saved, thou and thy house. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.16.32" data-parsed="Acts_16_32_0_0" data-passage="Acts 16.32" id="Acts.16.32"/><sup>32</sup>And they spake the word of the Lord unto him, with all that were in his house. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.16.33" data-parsed="Acts_16_33_0_0" data-passage="Acts 16.33" id="Acts.16.33"/><sup>33</sup>And he took them the same hour of the night,
and washed their stripes; and was baptized, he and all his, immediately.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.16.34" data-parsed="Acts_16_34_0_0" data-passage="Acts 16.34" id="Acts.16.34"/><sup>34</sup>And he brought them up into his house, and set food before them, and rejoiced greatly, with all his house, having believed in God. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.16.35" data-parsed="Acts_16_35_0_0" data-passage="Acts 16.35" id="Acts.16.35"/><sup>35</sup>But when it was day, the magistrates sent the sergeants, saying, Let those men go.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.16.36" data-parsed="Acts_16_36_0_0" data-passage="Acts 16.36" id="Acts.16.36"/><sup>36</sup>And the jailor reported the words to Paul, <i>saying</i>, The magistrates have sent to let you go: now therefore come forth, and go in peace. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.16.37" data-parsed="Acts_16_37_0_0" data-passage="Acts 16.37" id="Acts.16.37"/><sup>37</sup>But Paul said unto them, They have beaten us publicly,
uncondemned, men that are Romans, and have cast us into prison; and do they now cast us out privily? Nay verily; but let them come themselves and bring us out. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.16.38" data-parsed="Acts_16_38_0_0" data-passage="Acts 16.38" id="Acts.16.38"/><sup>38</sup>And the sergeants reported these words unto the magistrates:
and they feared when they heard that they were Romans; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.16.39" data-parsed="Acts_16_39_0_0" data-passage="Acts 16.39" id="Acts.16.39"/><sup>39</sup>and they came and besought them; and when they had brought them out, they asked them to go away from the city. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.16.40" data-parsed="Acts_16_40_0_0" data-passage="Acts 16.40" id="Acts.16.40"/><sup>40</sup>And they went out of the prison, and entered into <i>the house</i> of Lydia: and when they had seen the brethren, they comforted them, and departed.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>