<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Acts 10</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Acts 10</span></div><div data-next="Acts.11" data-prev="Acts.9" data-progress="88.70%" data-shorttitle="" id="Acts.10" title="Acts 10">
<h2 id="Acts.10-p0.1">10</h2>
<p id="Acts.10-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.10.1" data-parsed="Acts_10_1_0_0" data-passage="Acts 10.1" id="Acts.10.1"/><sup>1</sup>Now <i>there was</i> a certain man in Caesarea, Cornelius by name, a centurion of the band called the Italian <i>band</i>, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.10.2" data-parsed="Acts_10_2_0_0" data-passage="Acts 10.2" id="Acts.10.2"/><sup>2</sup>a devout man, and one that feared God with all his house, who gave much alms to the people, and prayed to God always. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.10.3" data-parsed="Acts_10_3_0_0" data-passage="Acts 10.3" id="Acts.10.3"/><sup>3</sup>He saw in a vision openly, as it were about the ninth hour of the day, an angel of God coming in unto him, and saying to him, Cornelius. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.10.4" data-parsed="Acts_10_4_0_0" data-passage="Acts 10.4" id="Acts.10.4"/><sup>4</sup>And he, fastening his eyes upon him, and being affrighted, said, What is it, Lord? And he said unto him, Thy prayers and thine alms are gone up for a memorial before God. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.10.5" data-parsed="Acts_10_5_0_0" data-passage="Acts 10.5" id="Acts.10.5"/><sup>5</sup>And now send men to Joppa, and fetch one Simon, who is surnamed Peter: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.10.6" data-parsed="Acts_10_6_0_0" data-passage="Acts 10.6" id="Acts.10.6"/><sup>6</sup>he lodgeth with one Simon a tanner, whose house is by the sea side. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.10.7" data-parsed="Acts_10_7_0_0" data-passage="Acts 10.7" id="Acts.10.7"/><sup>7</sup>And when the angel that spake unto him was departed, he called two of his household-servants, and a devout soldier of them that waited on him continually; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.10.8" data-parsed="Acts_10_8_0_0" data-passage="Acts 10.8" id="Acts.10.8"/><sup>8</sup>and having rehearsed all things unto them, he sent them to Joppa. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.10.9" data-parsed="Acts_10_9_0_0" data-passage="Acts 10.9" id="Acts.10.9"/><sup>9</sup>Now on the morrow, as they were on their journey, and drew nigh unto the city, Peter went up upon the housetop to pray, about the sixth hour: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.10.10" data-parsed="Acts_10_10_0_0" data-passage="Acts 10.10" id="Acts.10.10"/><sup>10</sup>and he became hungry, and desired to eat: but while they made ready, he fell into a trance;

<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.10.11" data-parsed="Acts_10_11_0_0" data-passage="Acts 10.11" id="Acts.10.11"/><sup>11</sup>and he beholdeth the heaven opened, and a certain vessel descending, as it were a great sheet, let down by four corners upon the earth: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.10.12" data-parsed="Acts_10_12_0_0" data-passage="Acts 10.12" id="Acts.10.12"/><sup>12</sup>wherein were all manner of fourfooted beasts and creeping things of the earth and birds of the heaven. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.10.13" data-parsed="Acts_10_13_0_0" data-passage="Acts 10.13" id="Acts.10.13"/><sup>13</sup>And there came a voice to him, Rise, Peter; kill and eat. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.10.14" data-parsed="Acts_10_14_0_0" data-passage="Acts 10.14" id="Acts.10.14"/><sup>14</sup>But Peter said, Not so, Lord; for I have never eaten anything that is common and unclean. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.10.15" data-parsed="Acts_10_15_0_0" data-passage="Acts 10.15" id="Acts.10.15"/><sup>15</sup>And a voice <i>came</i> unto him again the second time, What God hath cleansed, make not thou common. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.10.16" data-parsed="Acts_10_16_0_0" data-passage="Acts 10.16" id="Acts.10.16"/><sup>16</sup>And this was done thrice: and straightway the vessel was received up into heaven.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.10.17" data-parsed="Acts_10_17_0_0" data-passage="Acts 10.17" id="Acts.10.17"/><sup>17</sup>Now while Peter was much perplexed in himself what the vision which he had seen might mean, behold, the men that were sent by Cornelius, having made inquiry for Simon's house, stood before the gate, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.10.18" data-parsed="Acts_10_18_0_0" data-passage="Acts 10.18" id="Acts.10.18"/><sup>18</sup>and called and asked whether Simon, who was surnamed Peter, were lodging there. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.10.19" data-parsed="Acts_10_19_0_0" data-passage="Acts 10.19" id="Acts.10.19"/><sup>19</sup>And while Peter thought on the vision, the Spirit said unto him, Behold, three men seek thee. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.10.20" data-parsed="Acts_10_20_0_0" data-passage="Acts 10.20" id="Acts.10.20"/><sup>20</sup>But arise, and get thee down, and go with them, nothing doubting:
for I have sent them. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.10.21" data-parsed="Acts_10_21_0_0" data-passage="Acts 10.21" id="Acts.10.21"/><sup>21</sup>And Peter went down to the men, and said, Behold,
I am he whom ye seek: what is the cause wherefore ye are come? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.10.22" data-parsed="Acts_10_22_0_0" data-passage="Acts 10.22" id="Acts.10.22"/><sup>22</sup>And they said, Cornelius a centurion, a righteous man and one that feareth God, and well reported of by all the nation of the Jews, was warned <i>of God</i> by a holy angel to send for thee into his house, and to hear words from thee.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.10.23" data-parsed="Acts_10_23_0_0" data-passage="Acts 10.23" id="Acts.10.23"/><sup>23</sup>So he called them in and lodged them. And on the morrow he arose and went forth with them, and certain of the brethren from Joppa accompanied him.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.10.24" data-parsed="Acts_10_24_0_0" data-passage="Acts 10.24" id="Acts.10.24"/><sup>24</sup>And on the morrow they entered into Caesarea. And Cornelius was waiting for them, having called together his kinsmen and his near friends. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.10.25" data-parsed="Acts_10_25_0_0" data-passage="Acts 10.25" id="Acts.10.25"/><sup>25</sup>And when it came to pass that Peter entered, Cornelius met him, and fell down at his feet, and worshipped him. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.10.26" data-parsed="Acts_10_26_0_0" data-passage="Acts 10.26" id="Acts.10.26"/><sup>26</sup>But Peter raised him up, saying, Stand up; I myself also am a man. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.10.27" data-parsed="Acts_10_27_0_0" data-passage="Acts 10.27" id="Acts.10.27"/><sup>27</sup>And as he talked with him, he went in, and findeth many come together: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.10.28" data-parsed="Acts_10_28_0_0" data-passage="Acts 10.28" id="Acts.10.28"/><sup>28</sup>and he said unto them, Ye yourselves know how it is an unlawful thing for a man that is a Jew to join himself or come unto one of another nation; and <i>yet</i> unto me hath God showed that I should not call any man common or unclean: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.10.29" data-parsed="Acts_10_29_0_0" data-passage="Acts 10.29" id="Acts.10.29"/><sup>29</sup>wherefore also I came without gainsaying, when I was sent for. I ask therefore with what intent ye sent for me. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.10.30" data-parsed="Acts_10_30_0_0" data-passage="Acts 10.30" id="Acts.10.30"/><sup>30</sup>And Cornelius said, Four days ago, until this hour, I was keeping the ninth hour of prayer in my house; and behold, a man stood before me in bright apparel, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.10.31" data-parsed="Acts_10_31_0_0" data-passage="Acts 10.31" id="Acts.10.31"/><sup>31</sup>and saith, Cornelius, thy prayer is heard, and thine alms are had in remembrance in the sight of God. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.10.32" data-parsed="Acts_10_32_0_0" data-passage="Acts 10.32" id="Acts.10.32"/><sup>32</sup>Send therefore to Joppa, and call unto thee Simon, who is surnamed Peter; he lodgeth in the house of Simon a tanner, by the sea side. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.10.33" data-parsed="Acts_10_33_0_0" data-passage="Acts 10.33" id="Acts.10.33"/><sup>33</sup>Forthwith therefore I sent to thee; and thou hast well done that thou art come. Now therefore we are all here present in the sight of God, to hear all things that have been commanded thee of the Lord. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.10.34" data-parsed="Acts_10_34_0_0" data-passage="Acts 10.34" id="Acts.10.34"/><sup>34</sup>And Peter opened his mouth and said, Of a truth I perceive that God is no respecter of persons: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.10.35" data-parsed="Acts_10_35_0_0" data-passage="Acts 10.35" id="Acts.10.35"/><sup>35</sup>but in every nation he that feareth him, and worketh righteousness, is acceptable to him. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.10.36" data-parsed="Acts_10_36_0_0" data-passage="Acts 10.36" id="Acts.10.36"/><sup>36</sup>The word which he sent unto the children of Israel, preaching good tidings of peace by Jesus Christ (He is Lord of all.) -- 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.10.37" data-parsed="Acts_10_37_0_0" data-passage="Acts 10.37" id="Acts.10.37"/><sup>37</sup>that saying ye yourselves know, which was published throughout all Judaea, beginning from Galilee,
after the baptism which John preached; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.10.38" data-parsed="Acts_10_38_0_0" data-passage="Acts 10.38" id="Acts.10.38"/><sup>38</sup><i>even</i> Jesus of Nazareth,
how God anointed him with the Holy Spirit and with power: who went about doing good, and healing all that were oppressed of the devil; for God was with him. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.10.39" data-parsed="Acts_10_39_0_0" data-passage="Acts 10.39" id="Acts.10.39"/><sup>39</sup>And we are witnesses of all things which he did both in the country of the Jews, and in Jerusalem; whom also they slew, hanging him on a tree. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.10.40" data-parsed="Acts_10_40_0_0" data-passage="Acts 10.40" id="Acts.10.40"/><sup>40</sup>Him God raised up the third day, and gave him to be made manifest, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.10.41" data-parsed="Acts_10_41_0_0" data-passage="Acts 10.41" id="Acts.10.41"/><sup>41</sup>not to all the people, but unto witnesses that were chosen before of God, <i>even</i> to us, who ate and drank with him after he rose from the dead. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.10.42" data-parsed="Acts_10_42_0_0" data-passage="Acts 10.42" id="Acts.10.42"/><sup>42</sup>And he charged us to preach unto the people, and to testify that this is he who is ordained of God <i>to be</i> the Judge of the living and the dead. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.10.43" data-parsed="Acts_10_43_0_0" data-passage="Acts 10.43" id="Acts.10.43"/><sup>43</sup>To him bear all the prophets witness, that through his name every one that believeth on him shall receive remission of sins.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.10.44" data-parsed="Acts_10_44_0_0" data-passage="Acts 10.44" id="Acts.10.44"/><sup>44</sup>While Peter yet spake these words, the Holy Spirit fell on all them that heard the word. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.10.45" data-parsed="Acts_10_45_0_0" data-passage="Acts 10.45" id="Acts.10.45"/><sup>45</sup>And they of the circumcision that believed were amazed, as many as came with Peter, because that on the Gentiles also was poured out the gift of the Holy Spirit. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.10.46" data-parsed="Acts_10_46_0_0" data-passage="Acts 10.46" id="Acts.10.46"/><sup>46</sup>For they heard them speak with tongues, and magnify God. Then answered Peter, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.10.47" data-parsed="Acts_10_47_0_0" data-passage="Acts 10.47" id="Acts.10.47"/><sup>47</sup>Can any man forbid the water, that these should not be baptized, who have received the Holy Spirit as well as we? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.10.48" data-parsed="Acts_10_48_0_0" data-passage="Acts 10.48" id="Acts.10.48"/><sup>48</sup>And he commanded them to be baptized in the name of Jesus Christ. Then prayed they him to tarry certain days.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>