<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Acts 28</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Acts 28</span></div><div data-next="Rom" data-prev="Acts.27" data-progress="90.68%" data-shorttitle="" id="Acts.28" title="Acts 28">
<h2 id="Acts.28-p0.1">28</h2>
<p id="Acts.28-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.28.1" data-parsed="Acts_28_1_0_0" data-passage="Acts 28.1" id="Acts.28.1"/><sup>1</sup>And when we were escaped, then we knew that the island was called Melita. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.28.2" data-parsed="Acts_28_2_0_0" data-passage="Acts 28.2" id="Acts.28.2"/><sup>2</sup>And the barbarians showed us no common kindness; for they kindled a fire, and received us all, because of the present rain, and because of the cold. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.28.3" data-parsed="Acts_28_3_0_0" data-passage="Acts 28.3" id="Acts.28.3"/><sup>3</sup>But when Paul had gathered a bundle of sticks and laid them on the fire, a viper came out by reason of the heat, and fastened on his hand. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.28.4" data-parsed="Acts_28_4_0_0" data-passage="Acts 28.4" id="Acts.28.4"/><sup>4</sup>And when the barbarians saw the <i>venomous</i> creature hanging from his hand, they said one to another, No doubt this man is a murderer,
whom, though he hath escaped from the sea, yet Justice hath not suffered to live. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.28.5" data-parsed="Acts_28_5_0_0" data-passage="Acts 28.5" id="Acts.28.5"/><sup>5</sup>Howbeit he shook off the creature into the fire, and took no harm.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.28.6" data-parsed="Acts_28_6_0_0" data-passage="Acts 28.6" id="Acts.28.6"/><sup>6</sup>But they expected that he would have swollen, or fallen down dead suddenly: but when they were long in expectation and beheld nothing amiss came to him, they changed their minds, and said that he was a god. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.28.7" data-parsed="Acts_28_7_0_0" data-passage="Acts 28.7" id="Acts.28.7"/><sup>7</sup>Now in the neighborhood of that place were lands belonging to the chief man of the island, named Publius, who received us, and entertained us three days courteously. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.28.8" data-parsed="Acts_28_8_0_0" data-passage="Acts 28.8" id="Acts.28.8"/><sup>8</sup>And it was so, that the father of Publius lay sick of fever and dysentery: unto whom Paul entered in, and prayed, and laying his hands on him healed him. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.28.9" data-parsed="Acts_28_9_0_0" data-passage="Acts 28.9" id="Acts.28.9"/><sup>9</sup>And when this was done, the rest also that had diseases in the island came, and were cured: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.28.10" data-parsed="Acts_28_10_0_0" data-passage="Acts 28.10" id="Acts.28.10"/><sup>10</sup>who also honored us with many honors; and when we sailed, they put on board such things as we needed.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.28.11" data-parsed="Acts_28_11_0_0" data-passage="Acts 28.11" id="Acts.28.11"/><sup>11</sup>And after three months we set sail in a ship of Alexandria which had wintered in the island, whose sign was The Twin Brothers. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.28.12" data-parsed="Acts_28_12_0_0" data-passage="Acts 28.12" id="Acts.28.12"/><sup>12</sup>And touching at Syracuse, we tarried there three days. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.28.13" data-parsed="Acts_28_13_0_0" data-passage="Acts 28.13" id="Acts.28.13"/><sup>13</sup>And from thence we made a circuit, and arrived at Rhegium: and after one day a south wind sprang up,
and on the second day we came to Puteoli; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.28.14" data-parsed="Acts_28_14_0_0" data-passage="Acts 28.14" id="Acts.28.14"/><sup>14</sup>where we found brethren, and were entreated to tarry with them seven days: and so we came to Rome.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.28.15" data-parsed="Acts_28_15_0_0" data-passage="Acts 28.15" id="Acts.28.15"/><sup>15</sup>And from thence the brethren, when they heard of us, came to meet us as far as The Market of Appius and The Three Taverns; whom when Paul saw, he thanked God, and took courage. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.28.16" data-parsed="Acts_28_16_0_0" data-passage="Acts 28.16" id="Acts.28.16"/><sup>16</sup>And when we entered into Rome, Paul was suffered to abide by himself with the soldier that guarded him. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.28.17" data-parsed="Acts_28_17_0_0" data-passage="Acts 28.17" id="Acts.28.17"/><sup>17</sup>And it came to pass, that after three days he called together those that were the chief of the Jews: and when they were come together, he said unto them, I,
brethren, though I had done nothing against the people, or the customs of our fathers, yet was delivered prisoner from Jerusalem into the hands of the Romans: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.28.18" data-parsed="Acts_28_18_0_0" data-passage="Acts 28.18" id="Acts.28.18"/><sup>18</sup>who, when they had examined me, desired to set me at liberty,
because there was no cause of death in me. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.28.19" data-parsed="Acts_28_19_0_0" data-passage="Acts 28.19" id="Acts.28.19"/><sup>19</sup>But when the Jews spake against it, I was constrained to appeal unto Caesar; not that I had aught whereof to accuse my nation. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.28.20" data-parsed="Acts_28_20_0_0" data-passage="Acts 28.20" id="Acts.28.20"/><sup>20</sup>For this cause therefore did I entreat you to see and to speak with <i>me</i>: for because of the hope of Israel I am bound with this chain. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.28.21" data-parsed="Acts_28_21_0_0" data-passage="Acts 28.21" id="Acts.28.21"/><sup>21</sup>And they said unto him, We neither received letters from Judaea concerning thee, nor did any of the brethren come hither and report or speak any harm of thee. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.28.22" data-parsed="Acts_28_22_0_0" data-passage="Acts 28.22" id="Acts.28.22"/><sup>22</sup>But we desire to hear of thee what thou thinkest: for as concerning this sect, it is known to us that everywhere it is spoken against. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.28.23" data-parsed="Acts_28_23_0_0" data-passage="Acts 28.23" id="Acts.28.23"/><sup>23</sup>And when they had appointed him a day,
they came to him into his lodging in great number; to whom he expounded <i>the matter,</i> testifying the kingdom of God, and persuading them concerning Jesus, both from the law of Moses and from the prophets, from morning till evening. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.28.24" data-parsed="Acts_28_24_0_0" data-passage="Acts 28.24" id="Acts.28.24"/><sup>24</sup>And some believed the things which were spoken,
and some disbelieved. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.28.25" data-parsed="Acts_28_25_0_0" data-passage="Acts 28.25" id="Acts.28.25"/><sup>25</sup>And when they agreed not among themselves, they departed after that Paul had spoken one word, Well spake the Holy Spirit through Isaiah the prophet unto your fathers, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.28.26" data-parsed="Acts_28_26_0_0" data-passage="Acts 28.26" id="Acts.28.26"/><sup>26</sup>saying,</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Acts.28-p2">
Go thou unto this people, and say,</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Acts.28-p3">
By hearing ye shall hear, and shall in no wise understand;</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Acts.28-p4">
And seeing ye shall see, and shall in no wise perceive:</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Acts.28-p5">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.28.27" data-parsed="Acts_28_27_0_0" data-passage="Acts 28.27" id="Acts.28.27"/><sup>27</sup>For this people's heart is waxed gross,</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Acts.28-p6">
And their ears are dull of hearing,</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Acts.28-p7">
And their eyes they have closed;</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Acts.28-p8">
Lest, haply they should perceive with their eyes,</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Acts.28-p9">
And hear with their ears,</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Acts.28-p10">
And understand with their heart,</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Acts.28-p11">
And should turn again,</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Acts.28-p12">
And I should heal them.</p>
<p id="Acts.28-p13">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.28.28" data-parsed="Acts_28_28_0_0" data-passage="Acts 28.28" id="Acts.28.28"/><sup>28</sup>Be it known therefore unto you, that this salvation of God is sent unto the Gentiles: they will also hear. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.28.29" data-parsed="Acts_28_29_0_0" data-passage="Acts 28.29" id="Acts.28.29"/><sup>29</sup><i>And when he had said these words, the Jews departed, having much disputing among themselves.</i>
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.28.30" data-parsed="Acts_28_30_0_0" data-passage="Acts 28.30" id="Acts.28.30"/><sup>30</sup>And he abode two whole years in his own hired dwelling, and received all that went in unto him, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.28.31" data-parsed="Acts_28_31_0_0" data-passage="Acts 28.31" id="Acts.28.31"/><sup>31</sup>preaching the kingdom of God, and teaching the things concerning the Lord Jesus Christ with all boldness, none forbidding him.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>