<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Acts 14</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Acts 14</span></div><div data-next="Acts.15" data-prev="Acts.13" data-progress="89.16%" data-shorttitle="" id="Acts.14" title="Acts 14">
<h2 id="Acts.14-p0.1">14</h2>
<p id="Acts.14-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.14.1" data-parsed="Acts_14_1_0_0" data-passage="Acts 14.1" id="Acts.14.1"/><sup>1</sup>And it came to pass in Iconium that they entered together into the synagogue of the Jews, and so spake that a great multitude both of Jews and of Greeks believed. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.14.2" data-parsed="Acts_14_2_0_0" data-passage="Acts 14.2" id="Acts.14.2"/><sup>2</sup>But the Jews that were disobedient stirred up the souls of the Gentiles, and made them evil affected against the brethren.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.14.3" data-parsed="Acts_14_3_0_0" data-passage="Acts 14.3" id="Acts.14.3"/><sup>3</sup>Long time therefore they tarried <i>there</i> speaking boldly in the Lord, who bare witness unto the word of his grace, granting signs and wonders to be done by their hands. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.14.4" data-parsed="Acts_14_4_0_0" data-passage="Acts 14.4" id="Acts.14.4"/><sup>4</sup>But the multitude of the city was divided;
and part held with the Jews, and part with the apostles. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.14.5" data-parsed="Acts_14_5_0_0" data-passage="Acts 14.5" id="Acts.14.5"/><sup>5</sup>And when there was made an onset both of the Gentiles and of the Jews with their rulers, to treat them shamefully and to stone them, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.14.6" data-parsed="Acts_14_6_0_0" data-passage="Acts 14.6" id="Acts.14.6"/><sup>6</sup>they became aware of it, and fled unto the cities of Lycaonia, Lystra and Derbe, and the region round about: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.14.7" data-parsed="Acts_14_7_0_0" data-passage="Acts 14.7" id="Acts.14.7"/><sup>7</sup>and there they preached the gospel. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.14.8" data-parsed="Acts_14_8_0_0" data-passage="Acts 14.8" id="Acts.14.8"/><sup>8</sup>And at Lystra there sat a certain man, impotent in his feet, a cripple from his mother's womb, who never had walked. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.14.9" data-parsed="Acts_14_9_0_0" data-passage="Acts 14.9" id="Acts.14.9"/><sup>9</sup>The same heard Paul speaking, who, fastening eyes upon him, and seeing that he had faith to be made whole, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.14.10" data-parsed="Acts_14_10_0_0" data-passage="Acts 14.10" id="Acts.14.10"/><sup>10</sup>said with a loud voice, Stand upright on thy feet. And he leaped up and walked. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.14.11" data-parsed="Acts_14_11_0_0" data-passage="Acts 14.11" id="Acts.14.11"/><sup>11</sup>And when the multitude saw what Paul had done, they lifted up their voice, saying in the speech of Lycaonia, The gods are come down to us in the likeness of men.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.14.12" data-parsed="Acts_14_12_0_0" data-passage="Acts 14.12" id="Acts.14.12"/><sup>12</sup>And they called Barnabas, Jupiter; and Paul, Mercury, because he was the chief speaker. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.14.13" data-parsed="Acts_14_13_0_0" data-passage="Acts 14.13" id="Acts.14.13"/><sup>13</sup>And the priest of Jupiter whose <i>temple</i> was before the city, brought oxen and garlands unto the gates, and would have done sacrifice with the multitudes. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.14.14" data-parsed="Acts_14_14_0_0" data-passage="Acts 14.14" id="Acts.14.14"/><sup>14</sup>But when the apostles, Barnabas and Paul, heard of it, they rent their garments, and sprang forth among the multitude, crying out 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.14.15" data-parsed="Acts_14_15_0_0" data-passage="Acts 14.15" id="Acts.14.15"/><sup>15</sup>and saying, Sirs, why do ye these things? We also are men of like passions with you, and bring you good tidings, that ye should turn from these vain things unto a living God, who made the heaven and the earth and the sea, and all that in them is: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.14.16" data-parsed="Acts_14_16_0_0" data-passage="Acts 14.16" id="Acts.14.16"/><sup>16</sup>who in the generations gone by suffered all the nations to walk in their own ways. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.14.17" data-parsed="Acts_14_17_0_0" data-passage="Acts 14.17" id="Acts.14.17"/><sup>17</sup>And yet He left not himself without witness, in that he did good and gave you from heaven rains and fruitful seasons, filling your hearts with food and gladness.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.14.18" data-parsed="Acts_14_18_0_0" data-passage="Acts 14.18" id="Acts.14.18"/><sup>18</sup>And with these sayings scarce restrained they the multitudes from doing sacrifice unto them. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.14.19" data-parsed="Acts_14_19_0_0" data-passage="Acts 14.19" id="Acts.14.19"/><sup>19</sup>But there came Jews thither from Antioch and Iconium: and having persuaded the multitudes, they stoned Paul, and dragged him out of the city, supposing that he was dead. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.14.20" data-parsed="Acts_14_20_0_0" data-passage="Acts 14.20" id="Acts.14.20"/><sup>20</sup>But as the disciples stood round about him, he rose up, and entered into the city: and on the morrow he went forth with Barnabas to Derbe. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.14.21" data-parsed="Acts_14_21_0_0" data-passage="Acts 14.21" id="Acts.14.21"/><sup>21</sup>And when they had preached the gospel to that city, and had made many disciples, they returned to Lystra, and to Iconium, and to Antioch, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.14.22" data-parsed="Acts_14_22_0_0" data-passage="Acts 14.22" id="Acts.14.22"/><sup>22</sup>confirming the souls of the disciples, exhorting them to continue in the faith, and that through many tribulations we must enter into the kingdom of God. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.14.23" data-parsed="Acts_14_23_0_0" data-passage="Acts 14.23" id="Acts.14.23"/><sup>23</sup>And when they had appointed for them elders in every church, and had prayed with fasting, they commended them to the Lord, on whom they had believed. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.14.24" data-parsed="Acts_14_24_0_0" data-passage="Acts 14.24" id="Acts.14.24"/><sup>24</sup>And they passed through Pisidia, and came to Pamphylia. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.14.25" data-parsed="Acts_14_25_0_0" data-passage="Acts 14.25" id="Acts.14.25"/><sup>25</sup>And when they had spoken the word in Perga, they went down to Attalia; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.14.26" data-parsed="Acts_14_26_0_0" data-passage="Acts 14.26" id="Acts.14.26"/><sup>26</sup>and thence they sailed to Antioch, from whence they had been committed to the grace of God for the work which they had fulfilled. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.14.27" data-parsed="Acts_14_27_0_0" data-passage="Acts 14.27" id="Acts.14.27"/><sup>27</sup>And when they were come, and had gathered the church together, they rehearsed all things that God had done with them, and that he had opened a door of faith unto the Gentiles. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.14.28" data-parsed="Acts_14_28_0_0" data-passage="Acts 14.28" id="Acts.14.28"/><sup>28</sup>And they tarried no little time with the disciples.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>