<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Acts 24</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Acts 24</span></div><div data-next="Acts.25" data-prev="Acts.23" data-progress="90.27%" data-shorttitle="" id="Acts.24" title="Acts 24">
<h2 id="Acts.24-p0.1">24</h2>
<p id="Acts.24-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.24.1" data-parsed="Acts_24_1_0_0" data-passage="Acts 24.1" id="Acts.24.1"/><sup>1</sup>And after five days the high priest Ananias came down with certain elders, and <i>with</i> an orator, one Tertullus; and they informed the governor against Paul. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.24.2" data-parsed="Acts_24_2_0_0" data-passage="Acts 24.2" id="Acts.24.2"/><sup>2</sup>And when he was called, Tertullus began to accuse him, saying, Seeing that by thee we enjoy much peace, and that by the providence evils are corrected for this nation, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.24.3" data-parsed="Acts_24_3_0_0" data-passage="Acts 24.3" id="Acts.24.3"/><sup>3</sup>we accept it in all ways and in all places, most excellent Felix, with all thankfulness. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.24.4" data-parsed="Acts_24_4_0_0" data-passage="Acts 24.4" id="Acts.24.4"/><sup>4</sup>But,
that I be not further tedious unto thee, I entreat thee to hear us of thy clemency a few words. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.24.5" data-parsed="Acts_24_5_0_0" data-passage="Acts 24.5" id="Acts.24.5"/><sup>5</sup>For we have found this man a pestilent fellow, and a mover of insurrections among all the Jews throughout the world, and a ringleader of the sect of the Nazarenes: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.24.6" data-parsed="Acts_24_6_0_0" data-passage="Acts 24.6" id="Acts.24.6"/><sup>6</sup>who moreover assayed to profane the temple: on whom also we laid hold: <i>and we would have judged him according to our law.</i>
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.24.7" data-parsed="Acts_24_7_0_0" data-passage="Acts 24.7" id="Acts.24.7"/><sup>7</sup><i>But the chief captain Lysias came, and with great violence took him away out of our hands,</i>
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.24.8" data-parsed="Acts_24_8_0_0" data-passage="Acts 24.8" id="Acts.24.8"/><sup>8</sup><i>commanding his accusers to come before thee.</i> from whom thou wilt be able, by examining him thyself, to take knowledge of all these things whereof we accuse him. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.24.9" data-parsed="Acts_24_9_0_0" data-passage="Acts 24.9" id="Acts.24.9"/><sup>9</sup>And the Jews also joined in the charge, affirming that these things were so. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.24.10" data-parsed="Acts_24_10_0_0" data-passage="Acts 24.10" id="Acts.24.10"/><sup>10</sup>And when the governor had beckoned unto him to speak,
Paul answered, Forasmuch as I know that thou hast been of many years a judge unto this nation, I cheerfully make my defense: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.24.11" data-parsed="Acts_24_11_0_0" data-passage="Acts 24.11" id="Acts.24.11"/><sup>11</sup>Seeing that thou canst take knowledge that it is not more than twelve days since I went up to worship at Jerusalem: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.24.12" data-parsed="Acts_24_12_0_0" data-passage="Acts 24.12" id="Acts.24.12"/><sup>12</sup>and neither in the temple did they find me disputing with any man or stirring up a crowd, nor in the synagogues, nor in the city. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.24.13" data-parsed="Acts_24_13_0_0" data-passage="Acts 24.13" id="Acts.24.13"/><sup>13</sup>Neither can they prove to thee the things whereof they now accuse me. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.24.14" data-parsed="Acts_24_14_0_0" data-passage="Acts 24.14" id="Acts.24.14"/><sup>14</sup>But this I confess unto thee, that after the Way which they call a sect, so serve I the God of our fathers, believing all things which are according to the law, and which are written in the prophets; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.24.15" data-parsed="Acts_24_15_0_0" data-passage="Acts 24.15" id="Acts.24.15"/><sup>15</sup>having hope toward God, which these also themselves look for, that there shall be a resurrection both of the just and unjust. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.24.16" data-parsed="Acts_24_16_0_0" data-passage="Acts 24.16" id="Acts.24.16"/><sup>16</sup>Herein I also exercise myself to have a conscience void of offence toward God and men always. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.24.17" data-parsed="Acts_24_17_0_0" data-passage="Acts 24.17" id="Acts.24.17"/><sup>17</sup>Now after some years I came to bring alms to my nation, and offerings:

<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.24.18" data-parsed="Acts_24_18_0_0" data-passage="Acts 24.18" id="Acts.24.18"/><sup>18</sup>amidst which they found me purified in the temple, with no crowd, nor yet with tumult: but <i>there were</i> certain Jews from Asia-- 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.24.19" data-parsed="Acts_24_19_0_0" data-passage="Acts 24.19" id="Acts.24.19"/><sup>19</sup>who ought to have been here before thee, and to make accusation, if they had aught against me. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.24.20" data-parsed="Acts_24_20_0_0" data-passage="Acts 24.20" id="Acts.24.20"/><sup>20</sup>Or else let these men themselves say what wrong-doing they found when I stood before the council, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.24.21" data-parsed="Acts_24_21_0_0" data-passage="Acts 24.21" id="Acts.24.21"/><sup>21</sup>except it be for this one voice, that I cried standing among them, Touching the resurrection of the dead I am called in question before you this day. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.24.22" data-parsed="Acts_24_22_0_0" data-passage="Acts 24.22" id="Acts.24.22"/><sup>22</sup>But Felix, having more exact knowledge concerning the Way, deferred them, saying, When Lysias the chief captain shall come down, I will determine your matter. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.24.23" data-parsed="Acts_24_23_0_0" data-passage="Acts 24.23" id="Acts.24.23"/><sup>23</sup>And he gave order to the centurion that he should be kept in charge, and should have indulgence; and not to forbid any of his friends to minister unto him.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.24.24" data-parsed="Acts_24_24_0_0" data-passage="Acts 24.24" id="Acts.24.24"/><sup>24</sup>But after certain days, Felix came with Drusilla, his wife, who was a Jewess, and sent for Paul, and heard him concerning the faith in Christ Jesus. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.24.25" data-parsed="Acts_24_25_0_0" data-passage="Acts 24.25" id="Acts.24.25"/><sup>25</sup>And as he reasoned of righteousness, and self-control, and the judgment to come, Felix was terrified, and answered, Go thy way for this time; and when I have a convenient season, I will call thee unto me. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.24.26" data-parsed="Acts_24_26_0_0" data-passage="Acts 24.26" id="Acts.24.26"/><sup>26</sup>He hoped withal that money would be given him of Paul: wherefore also he sent for him the oftener, and communed with him. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.24.27" data-parsed="Acts_24_27_0_0" data-passage="Acts 24.27" id="Acts.24.27"/><sup>27</sup>But when two years were fulfilled, Felix was succeeded by Porcius Festus; and desiring to gain favor with the Jews, Felix left Paul in bonds.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>