<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Acts 4</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Acts 4</span></div><div data-next="Acts.5" data-prev="Acts.3" data-progress="88.00%" data-shorttitle="" id="Acts.4" title="Acts 4">
<h2 id="Acts.4-p0.1">4</h2>
<p id="Acts.4-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.4.1" data-parsed="Acts_4_1_0_0" data-passage="Acts 4.1" id="Acts.4.1"/><sup>1</sup>And as they spake unto the people, the priests and the captain of the temple and the Sadducees came upon them, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.4.2" data-parsed="Acts_4_2_0_0" data-passage="Acts 4.2" id="Acts.4.2"/><sup>2</sup>being sore troubled because they taught the people, and proclaimed in Jesus the resurrection from the dead. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.4.3" data-parsed="Acts_4_3_0_0" data-passage="Acts 4.3" id="Acts.4.3"/><sup>3</sup>And they laid hands on them, and put them in ward unto the morrow:
for it was now eventide. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.4.4" data-parsed="Acts_4_4_0_0" data-passage="Acts 4.4" id="Acts.4.4"/><sup>4</sup>But many of them that heard the word believed;
and the number of the men came to be about five thousand. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.4.5" data-parsed="Acts_4_5_0_0" data-passage="Acts 4.5" id="Acts.4.5"/><sup>5</sup>And it came to pass on the morrow, that their rulers and elders and scribes were gathered together in Jerusalem; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.4.6" data-parsed="Acts_4_6_0_0" data-passage="Acts 4.6" id="Acts.4.6"/><sup>6</sup>and Annas the high priest <i>was there</i>, and Caiaphas, and John, and Alexander, and as many as were of the kindred of the high priest. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.4.7" data-parsed="Acts_4_7_0_0" data-passage="Acts 4.7" id="Acts.4.7"/><sup>7</sup>And when they had set them in the midst, they inquired, By what power, or in what name, have ye done this? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.4.8" data-parsed="Acts_4_8_0_0" data-passage="Acts 4.8" id="Acts.4.8"/><sup>8</sup>Then Peter, filled with the Holy Spirit, said unto them, Ye rulers of the people, and elders, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.4.9" data-parsed="Acts_4_9_0_0" data-passage="Acts 4.9" id="Acts.4.9"/><sup>9</sup>if we this day are examined concerning a good deed done to an impotent man, by what means this man is made whole; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.4.10" data-parsed="Acts_4_10_0_0" data-passage="Acts 4.10" id="Acts.4.10"/><sup>10</sup>be it known unto you all, and to all the people of Israel, that in the name of Jesus Christ of Nazareth, whom ye crucified, whom God raised from the dead, <i>even</i> in him doth this man stand here before you whole. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.4.11" data-parsed="Acts_4_11_0_0" data-passage="Acts 4.11" id="Acts.4.11"/><sup>11</sup>He is the stone which was set at nought of you the builders, which was made the head of the corner. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.4.12" data-parsed="Acts_4_12_0_0" data-passage="Acts 4.12" id="Acts.4.12"/><sup>12</sup>And in none other is there salvation: for neither is there any other name under heaven,
that is given among men, wherein we must be saved. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.4.13" data-parsed="Acts_4_13_0_0" data-passage="Acts 4.13" id="Acts.4.13"/><sup>13</sup>Now when they beheld the boldness of Peter and John, and had perceived that they were unlearned and ignorant men, they marvelled; and they took knowledge of them, that they had been with Jesus. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.4.14" data-parsed="Acts_4_14_0_0" data-passage="Acts 4.14" id="Acts.4.14"/><sup>14</sup>And seeing the man that was healed standing with them, they could say nothing against it. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.4.15" data-parsed="Acts_4_15_0_0" data-passage="Acts 4.15" id="Acts.4.15"/><sup>15</sup>But when they had commanded them to go aside out of the council, they conferred among themselves,

<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.4.16" data-parsed="Acts_4_16_0_0" data-passage="Acts 4.16" id="Acts.4.16"/><sup>16</sup>saying, What shall we do to these men? for that indeed a notable miracle hath been wrought through them, is manifest to all that dwell in Jerusalem; and we cannot deny it. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.4.17" data-parsed="Acts_4_17_0_0" data-passage="Acts 4.17" id="Acts.4.17"/><sup>17</sup>But that it spread no further among the people, let us threaten them, that they speak henceforth to no man in this name. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.4.18" data-parsed="Acts_4_18_0_0" data-passage="Acts 4.18" id="Acts.4.18"/><sup>18</sup>And they called them, and charged them not to speak at all nor teach in the name of Jesus. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.4.19" data-parsed="Acts_4_19_0_0" data-passage="Acts 4.19" id="Acts.4.19"/><sup>19</sup>But Peter and John answered and said unto them, Whether it is right in the sight of God to hearken unto you rather than unto God, judge ye: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.4.20" data-parsed="Acts_4_20_0_0" data-passage="Acts 4.20" id="Acts.4.20"/><sup>20</sup>for we cannot but speak the things which we saw and heard. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.4.21" data-parsed="Acts_4_21_0_0" data-passage="Acts 4.21" id="Acts.4.21"/><sup>21</sup>And they, when they had further threatened them, let them go, finding nothing how they might punish them, because of the people;
for all men glorified God for that which was done. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.4.22" data-parsed="Acts_4_22_0_0" data-passage="Acts 4.22" id="Acts.4.22"/><sup>22</sup>For the man was more than forty years old, on whom this miracle of healing was wrought. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.4.23" data-parsed="Acts_4_23_0_0" data-passage="Acts 4.23" id="Acts.4.23"/><sup>23</sup>And being let go, they came to their own company, and reported all that the chief priests and the elders had said unto them. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.4.24" data-parsed="Acts_4_24_0_0" data-passage="Acts 4.24" id="Acts.4.24"/><sup>24</sup>And they, when they heard it, lifted up their voice to God with one accord, and said, O Lord, thou that didst make the heaven and the earth and the sea, and all that in them is:

<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.4.25" data-parsed="Acts_4_25_0_0" data-passage="Acts 4.25" id="Acts.4.25"/><sup>25</sup>who by the Holy Spirit, <i>by</i> the mouth of our father David thy servant, didst say,</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Acts.4-p2">
Why did the Gentiles rage,</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Acts.4-p3">
And the peoples imagine vain things?</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Acts.4-p4">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.4.26" data-parsed="Acts_4_26_0_0" data-passage="Acts 4.26" id="Acts.4.26"/><sup>26</sup>The kings of the earth set themselves in array,</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Acts.4-p5">
And the rulers were gathered together,</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Acts.4-p6">
Against the Lord, and against his Anointed:</p>
<p id="Acts.4-p7">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.4.27" data-parsed="Acts_4_27_0_0" data-passage="Acts 4.27" id="Acts.4.27"/><sup>27</sup>for of a truth in this city against thy holy Servant Jesus, whom thou didst anoint, both Herod and Pontius Pilate, with the Gentiles and the peoples of Israel, were gathered together, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.4.28" data-parsed="Acts_4_28_0_0" data-passage="Acts 4.28" id="Acts.4.28"/><sup>28</sup>to do whatsoever thy hand and thy council foreordained to come to pass. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.4.29" data-parsed="Acts_4_29_0_0" data-passage="Acts 4.29" id="Acts.4.29"/><sup>29</sup>And now, Lord, look upon their threatenings: and grant unto thy servants to speak thy word with all boldness, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.4.30" data-parsed="Acts_4_30_0_0" data-passage="Acts 4.30" id="Acts.4.30"/><sup>30</sup>while thy stretchest forth thy hand to heal; and that signs and wonders may be done through the name of thy holy Servant Jesus. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.4.31" data-parsed="Acts_4_31_0_0" data-passage="Acts 4.31" id="Acts.4.31"/><sup>31</sup>And when they had prayed, the place was shaken wherein they were gathered together; and they were all filled with the Holy Spirit, and they spake the word of God with boldness. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.4.32" data-parsed="Acts_4_32_0_0" data-passage="Acts 4.32" id="Acts.4.32"/><sup>32</sup>And the multitude of them that believed were of one heart and soul: and not one <i>of them</i> said that aught of the things which he possessed was his own; but they had all things common.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.4.33" data-parsed="Acts_4_33_0_0" data-passage="Acts 4.33" id="Acts.4.33"/><sup>33</sup>And with great power gave the apostles their witness of the resurrection of the Lord Jesus: and great grace was upon them all. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.4.34" data-parsed="Acts_4_34_0_0" data-passage="Acts 4.34" id="Acts.4.34"/><sup>34</sup>For neither was there among them any that lacked: for as many as were possessors of lands or houses sold them, and brought the prices of the things that were sold, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.4.35" data-parsed="Acts_4_35_0_0" data-passage="Acts 4.35" id="Acts.4.35"/><sup>35</sup>and laid them at the apostles' feet: and distribution was made unto each, according as any one had need. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.4.36" data-parsed="Acts_4_36_0_0" data-passage="Acts 4.36" id="Acts.4.36"/><sup>36</sup>And Joseph, who by the apostles was surnamed Barnabas (which is, being interpreted, Son of exhortation), a Levite, a man of Cyprus by race, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.4.37" data-parsed="Acts_4_37_0_0" data-passage="Acts 4.37" id="Acts.4.37"/><sup>37</sup>having a field, sold it, and brought the money and laid it at the apostles' feet.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>