<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Acts 8</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Acts 8</span></div><div data-next="Acts.9" data-prev="Acts.7" data-progress="88.46%" data-shorttitle="" id="Acts.8" title="Acts 8">
<h2 id="Acts.8-p0.1">8</h2>
<p id="Acts.8-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.8.1" data-parsed="Acts_8_1_0_0" data-passage="Acts 8.1" id="Acts.8.1"/><sup>1</sup>And Saul was consenting unto his death. And there arose on that day a great persecution against the church which was in Jerusalem; and they were all scattered abroad throughout the regions of Judaea and Samaria, except the apostles. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.8.2" data-parsed="Acts_8_2_0_0" data-passage="Acts 8.2" id="Acts.8.2"/><sup>2</sup>And devout men buried Stephen, and made great lamentation over him. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.8.3" data-parsed="Acts_8_3_0_0" data-passage="Acts 8.3" id="Acts.8.3"/><sup>3</sup>But Saul laid waste the church, entering into every house, and dragging men and women committed them to prison. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.8.4" data-parsed="Acts_8_4_0_0" data-passage="Acts 8.4" id="Acts.8.4"/><sup>4</sup>They therefore that were scattered abroad, went about preaching the word. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.8.5" data-parsed="Acts_8_5_0_0" data-passage="Acts 8.5" id="Acts.8.5"/><sup>5</sup>And Philip went down to the city of Samaria, and proclaimed unto them the Christ. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.8.6" data-parsed="Acts_8_6_0_0" data-passage="Acts 8.6" id="Acts.8.6"/><sup>6</sup>And the multitudes gave heed with one accord unto the things that were spoken by Philip, when they heard, and saw the signs which he did. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.8.7" data-parsed="Acts_8_7_0_0" data-passage="Acts 8.7" id="Acts.8.7"/><sup>7</sup>For <i>from</i> many of those that had unclean spirits, they came out, crying with a loud voice: and many that were palsied, and that were lame, were healed. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.8.8" data-parsed="Acts_8_8_0_0" data-passage="Acts 8.8" id="Acts.8.8"/><sup>8</sup>And there was much joy in that city. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.8.9" data-parsed="Acts_8_9_0_0" data-passage="Acts 8.9" id="Acts.8.9"/><sup>9</sup>But there was a certain man, Simon by name, who beforetime in the city used sorcery, and amazed the people of Samaria, giving out that himself was some great one:

<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.8.10" data-parsed="Acts_8_10_0_0" data-passage="Acts 8.10" id="Acts.8.10"/><sup>10</sup>to whom they all gave heed, from the least to the greatest, saying,
This man is that power of God which is called Great. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.8.11" data-parsed="Acts_8_11_0_0" data-passage="Acts 8.11" id="Acts.8.11"/><sup>11</sup>And they gave heed to him, because that of long time he had amazed them with his sorceries.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.8.12" data-parsed="Acts_8_12_0_0" data-passage="Acts 8.12" id="Acts.8.12"/><sup>12</sup>But when they believed Philip preaching good tidings concerning the kingdom of God and the name of Jesus Christ, they were baptized, both men and women. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.8.13" data-parsed="Acts_8_13_0_0" data-passage="Acts 8.13" id="Acts.8.13"/><sup>13</sup>And Simon also himself believed: and being baptized, he continued with Philip; and beholding signs and great miracles wrought, he was amazed. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.8.14" data-parsed="Acts_8_14_0_0" data-passage="Acts 8.14" id="Acts.8.14"/><sup>14</sup>Now when the apostles that were at Jerusalem heard that Samaria had received the word of God, they sent unto them Peter and John: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.8.15" data-parsed="Acts_8_15_0_0" data-passage="Acts 8.15" id="Acts.8.15"/><sup>15</sup>who,
when they were come down, prayed for them, that they might receive the Holy Spirit: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.8.16" data-parsed="Acts_8_16_0_0" data-passage="Acts 8.16" id="Acts.8.16"/><sup>16</sup>for as yet it was fallen upon none of them: only they had been baptized into the name of the Lord Jesus. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.8.17" data-parsed="Acts_8_17_0_0" data-passage="Acts 8.17" id="Acts.8.17"/><sup>17</sup>Then laid they their hands on them, and they received the Holy Spirit. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.8.18" data-parsed="Acts_8_18_0_0" data-passage="Acts 8.18" id="Acts.8.18"/><sup>18</sup>Now when Simon saw that through the laying on of the apostles' hands the Holy Spirit was given, he offered them money, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.8.19" data-parsed="Acts_8_19_0_0" data-passage="Acts 8.19" id="Acts.8.19"/><sup>19</sup>saying, Give me also this power, that on whomsoever I lay my hands, he may receive the Holy Spirit. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.8.20" data-parsed="Acts_8_20_0_0" data-passage="Acts 8.20" id="Acts.8.20"/><sup>20</sup>But Peter said unto him, Thy silver perish with thee, because thou hast thought to obtain the gift of God with money. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.8.21" data-parsed="Acts_8_21_0_0" data-passage="Acts 8.21" id="Acts.8.21"/><sup>21</sup>Thou hast neither part nor lot in this matter:
for thy heart is not right before God. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.8.22" data-parsed="Acts_8_22_0_0" data-passage="Acts 8.22" id="Acts.8.22"/><sup>22</sup>Repent therefore of this thy wickedness, and pray the Lord, if perhaps the thought of thy heart shall be forgiven thee. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.8.23" data-parsed="Acts_8_23_0_0" data-passage="Acts 8.23" id="Acts.8.23"/><sup>23</sup>For I see that thou art in the gall of bitterness and in the bond of iniquity. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.8.24" data-parsed="Acts_8_24_0_0" data-passage="Acts 8.24" id="Acts.8.24"/><sup>24</sup>And Simon answered and said, Pray ye for me to the Lord, that none of the things which ye have spoken come upon me.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.8.25" data-parsed="Acts_8_25_0_0" data-passage="Acts 8.25" id="Acts.8.25"/><sup>25</sup>They therefore, when they had testified and spoken the word of the Lord, returned to Jerusalem, and preached the gospel to many villages of the Samaritans. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.8.26" data-parsed="Acts_8_26_0_0" data-passage="Acts 8.26" id="Acts.8.26"/><sup>26</sup>But an angel of the Lord spake unto Philip, saying, Arise,
and go toward the south unto the way that goeth down from Jerusalem unto Gaza: the same is desert. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.8.27" data-parsed="Acts_8_27_0_0" data-passage="Acts 8.27" id="Acts.8.27"/><sup>27</sup>And he arose and went: and behold, a man of Ethiopia, a eunuch of great authority under Candace, queen of the Ethiopians,
who was over all her treasure, who had come to Jerusalem to worship;

<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.8.28" data-parsed="Acts_8_28_0_0" data-passage="Acts 8.28" id="Acts.8.28"/><sup>28</sup>and he was returning and sitting in his chariot, and was reading the prophet Isaiah. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.8.29" data-parsed="Acts_8_29_0_0" data-passage="Acts 8.29" id="Acts.8.29"/><sup>29</sup>And the Spirit said unto Philip, Go near, and join thyself to this chariot. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.8.30" data-parsed="Acts_8_30_0_0" data-passage="Acts 8.30" id="Acts.8.30"/><sup>30</sup>And Philip ran to him, and heard him reading Isaiah the prophet, and said, Understandest thou what thou readest? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.8.31" data-parsed="Acts_8_31_0_0" data-passage="Acts 8.31" id="Acts.8.31"/><sup>31</sup>And he said, How can I, except some one shall guide me? And he besought Philip to come up and sit with him. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.8.32" data-parsed="Acts_8_32_0_0" data-passage="Acts 8.32" id="Acts.8.32"/><sup>32</sup>Now the passage of the span which he was reading was this,</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Acts.8-p2">
He was led as a sheep to the slaughter;</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Acts.8-p3">
And as a lamb before his shearer is dumb,</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Acts.8-p4">
So he openeth not his mouth:</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Acts.8-p5">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.8.33" data-parsed="Acts_8_33_0_0" data-passage="Acts 8.33" id="Acts.8.33"/><sup>33</sup>In his humiliation his judgment was taken away:</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Acts.8-p6">
His generation who shall declare?</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Acts.8-p7">
For his life is taken from the earth.</p>
<p id="Acts.8-p8">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.8.34" data-parsed="Acts_8_34_0_0" data-passage="Acts 8.34" id="Acts.8.34"/><sup>34</sup>And the eunuch answered Philip, and said, I pray thee, of whom speaketh the prophet this? of himself, or of some other? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.8.35" data-parsed="Acts_8_35_0_0" data-passage="Acts 8.35" id="Acts.8.35"/><sup>35</sup>And Philip opened his mouth, and beginning from this span, preached unto him Jesus. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.8.36" data-parsed="Acts_8_36_0_0" data-passage="Acts 8.36" id="Acts.8.36"/><sup>36</sup>And as they went on the way, they came unto a certain water; and the eunuch saith, Behold, <i>here is</i> water; what doth hinder me to be baptized?

<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.8.37" data-parsed="Acts_8_37_0_0" data-passage="Acts 8.37" id="Acts.8.37"/><sup>37</sup><i>And Philip said, If thou believest with all thy heart, thou mayest.
And he answered and said, I believe that Jesus Christ is the Son of God.</i>
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.8.38" data-parsed="Acts_8_38_0_0" data-passage="Acts 8.38" id="Acts.8.38"/><sup>38</sup>And he commanded the chariot to stand still: and they both went down into the water, both Philip and the eunuch, and he baptized him. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.8.39" data-parsed="Acts_8_39_0_0" data-passage="Acts 8.39" id="Acts.8.39"/><sup>39</sup>And when they came up out of the water, the Spirit of the Lord caught away Philip; and the eunuch saw him no more, for he went on his way rejoicing.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.8.40" data-parsed="Acts_8_40_0_0" data-passage="Acts 8.40" id="Acts.8.40"/><sup>40</sup>But Philip was found at Azotus: and passing through he preached the gospel to all the cities, till he came to Caesarea.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>