<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Acts 21</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Acts 21</span></div><div data-next="Acts.22" data-prev="Acts.20" data-progress="89.93%" data-shorttitle="" id="Acts.21" title="Acts 21">
<h2 id="Acts.21-p0.1">21</h2>
<p id="Acts.21-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.21.1" data-parsed="Acts_21_1_0_0" data-passage="Acts 21.1" id="Acts.21.1"/><sup>1</sup>And when it came to pass that were parted from them and had set sail, we came with a straight course unto Cos, and the next day unto Rhodes,
and from thence unto Patara: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.21.2" data-parsed="Acts_21_2_0_0" data-passage="Acts 21.2" id="Acts.21.2"/><sup>2</sup>and having found a ship crossing over unto Phoenicia, we went aboard, and set sail. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.21.3" data-parsed="Acts_21_3_0_0" data-passage="Acts 21.3" id="Acts.21.3"/><sup>3</sup>And when we had come in sight of Cyprus, leaving it on the left hand, we sailed unto Syria, and landed at Tyre; for there the ship was to unlade her burden. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.21.4" data-parsed="Acts_21_4_0_0" data-passage="Acts 21.4" id="Acts.21.4"/><sup>4</sup>And having found the disciples, we tarried there seven days: and these said to Paul through the Spirit, that he should not set foot in Jerusalem. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.21.5" data-parsed="Acts_21_5_0_0" data-passage="Acts 21.5" id="Acts.21.5"/><sup>5</sup>And when it came to pass that we had accomplished the days, we departed and went on our journey;
and they all, with wives and children, brought us on our way till we were out of the city: and kneeling down on the beach, we prayed, and bade each other farewell; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.21.6" data-parsed="Acts_21_6_0_0" data-passage="Acts 21.6" id="Acts.21.6"/><sup>6</sup>and we went on board the ship, but they returned home again.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.21.7" data-parsed="Acts_21_7_0_0" data-passage="Acts 21.7" id="Acts.21.7"/><sup>7</sup>And when we had finished the voyage from Tyre, we arrived at Ptolemais;
and we saluted the brethren, and abode with them one day. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.21.8" data-parsed="Acts_21_8_0_0" data-passage="Acts 21.8" id="Acts.21.8"/><sup>8</sup>And on the morrow we departed, and came unto Caesarea: and entering into the house of Philip the evangelist, who was one of the seven, we abode with him. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.21.9" data-parsed="Acts_21_9_0_0" data-passage="Acts 21.9" id="Acts.21.9"/><sup>9</sup>Now this man had four virgin daughters, who prophesied. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.21.10" data-parsed="Acts_21_10_0_0" data-passage="Acts 21.10" id="Acts.21.10"/><sup>10</sup>And as we tarried there some days, there came down from Judaea a certain prophet, named Agabus.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.21.11" data-parsed="Acts_21_11_0_0" data-passage="Acts 21.11" id="Acts.21.11"/><sup>11</sup>And coming to us, and taking Paul's girdle, he bound his own feet and hands, and said, Thus saith the Holy Spirit, So shall the Jews at Jerusalem bind the man that owneth this girdle, and shall deliver him into the hands of the Gentiles. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.21.12" data-parsed="Acts_21_12_0_0" data-passage="Acts 21.12" id="Acts.21.12"/><sup>12</sup>And when we heard these things, both we and they of that place besought him not to go up to Jerusalem. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.21.13" data-parsed="Acts_21_13_0_0" data-passage="Acts 21.13" id="Acts.21.13"/><sup>13</sup>Then Paul answered, What do ye, weeping and breaking my heart? for I am ready not to be bound only,
but also to die at Jerusalem for the name of the Lord Jesus. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.21.14" data-parsed="Acts_21_14_0_0" data-passage="Acts 21.14" id="Acts.21.14"/><sup>14</sup>And when he would not be persuaded, we ceased, saying, The will of the Lord be done.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.21.15" data-parsed="Acts_21_15_0_0" data-passage="Acts 21.15" id="Acts.21.15"/><sup>15</sup>And after these days we took up our baggage and went up to Jerusalem.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.21.16" data-parsed="Acts_21_16_0_0" data-passage="Acts 21.16" id="Acts.21.16"/><sup>16</sup>And there went with us also <i>certain</i> of the disciples from Caesarea, bringing <i>with them</i> one Mnason of Cyprus, an early disciple,
with whom we should lodge. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.21.17" data-parsed="Acts_21_17_0_0" data-passage="Acts 21.17" id="Acts.21.17"/><sup>17</sup>And when we were come to Jerusalem, the brethren received us gladly. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.21.18" data-parsed="Acts_21_18_0_0" data-passage="Acts 21.18" id="Acts.21.18"/><sup>18</sup>And the day following Paul went in with us unto James; and all the elders were present. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.21.19" data-parsed="Acts_21_19_0_0" data-passage="Acts 21.19" id="Acts.21.19"/><sup>19</sup>And when he had saluted them, he rehearsed one by one the things which God had wrought among the Gentiles through his ministry. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.21.20" data-parsed="Acts_21_20_0_0" data-passage="Acts 21.20" id="Acts.21.20"/><sup>20</sup>And they, when they heard it, glorified God; and they said unto him, Thou seest, brother, how many thousands there are among the Jews of them that have believed; and they are all zealous for the law: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.21.21" data-parsed="Acts_21_21_0_0" data-passage="Acts 21.21" id="Acts.21.21"/><sup>21</sup>and they have been informed concerning thee, that thou teachest all the Jews who are among the Gentiles to forsake Moses, telling them not to circumcise their children neither to walk after the customs.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.21.22" data-parsed="Acts_21_22_0_0" data-passage="Acts 21.22" id="Acts.21.22"/><sup>22</sup>What is it therefore? They will certainly hear that thou art come.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.21.23" data-parsed="Acts_21_23_0_0" data-passage="Acts 21.23" id="Acts.21.23"/><sup>23</sup>Do therefore this that we say to thee: We have four men that have a vow on them; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.21.24" data-parsed="Acts_21_24_0_0" data-passage="Acts 21.24" id="Acts.21.24"/><sup>24</sup>these take, and purify thyself with them, and be at charges for them, that they may shave their heads: and all shall know that there is no truth in the things whereof they have been informed concerning thee; but that thou thyself also walkest orderly, keeping the law. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.21.25" data-parsed="Acts_21_25_0_0" data-passage="Acts 21.25" id="Acts.21.25"/><sup>25</sup>But as touching the Gentiles that have believed, we wrote, giving judgment that they should keep themselves from things sacrificed to idols, and from blood, and from what is strangled, and from fornication. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.21.26" data-parsed="Acts_21_26_0_0" data-passage="Acts 21.26" id="Acts.21.26"/><sup>26</sup>Then Paul took the men,
and the next day purifying himself with them went into the temple, declaring the fulfilment of the days of purification, until the offering was offered for every one of them. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.21.27" data-parsed="Acts_21_27_0_0" data-passage="Acts 21.27" id="Acts.21.27"/><sup>27</sup>And when the seven days were almost completed,
the Jews from Asia, when they saw him in the temple, stirred up all the multitude and laid hands on him, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.21.28" data-parsed="Acts_21_28_0_0" data-passage="Acts 21.28" id="Acts.21.28"/><sup>28</sup>crying out, Men of Israel, help: This is the man that teacheth all men everywhere against the people, and the law,
and this place; and moreover he brought Greeks also into the temple, and hath defiled this holy place. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.21.29" data-parsed="Acts_21_29_0_0" data-passage="Acts 21.29" id="Acts.21.29"/><sup>29</sup>For they had before seen with him in the city Trophimus the Ephesian, whom they supposed that Paul had brought into the temple. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.21.30" data-parsed="Acts_21_30_0_0" data-passage="Acts 21.30" id="Acts.21.30"/><sup>30</sup>And all the city was moved, and the people ran together; and they laid hold on Paul, and dragged him out of the temple: and straightway the doors were shut. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.21.31" data-parsed="Acts_21_31_0_0" data-passage="Acts 21.31" id="Acts.21.31"/><sup>31</sup>And as they were seeking to kill him, tidings came up to the chief captain of the band, that all Jerusalem was in confusion.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.21.32" data-parsed="Acts_21_32_0_0" data-passage="Acts 21.32" id="Acts.21.32"/><sup>32</sup>And forthwith he took soldiers and centurions, and ran down upon them:
and they, when they saw the chief captain and the soldiers, left off beating Paul. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.21.33" data-parsed="Acts_21_33_0_0" data-passage="Acts 21.33" id="Acts.21.33"/><sup>33</sup>Then the chief captain came near, and laid hold on him, and commanded him to be bound with two chains; and inquired who he was, and what he had done. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.21.34" data-parsed="Acts_21_34_0_0" data-passage="Acts 21.34" id="Acts.21.34"/><sup>34</sup>And some shouted one thing, some another, among the crowd:
and when he could not know the certainty for the uproar, he commanded him to be brought into the castle. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.21.35" data-parsed="Acts_21_35_0_0" data-passage="Acts 21.35" id="Acts.21.35"/><sup>35</sup>And when he came upon the stairs, so it was that he was borne of the soldiers for the violence of the crowd; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.21.36" data-parsed="Acts_21_36_0_0" data-passage="Acts 21.36" id="Acts.21.36"/><sup>36</sup>for the multitude of the people followed after, crying out, Away with him.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.21.37" data-parsed="Acts_21_37_0_0" data-passage="Acts 21.37" id="Acts.21.37"/><sup>37</sup>And as Paul was about to be brought into the castle, he saith unto the chief captain, May I say something unto thee? And he said, Dost thou know Greek? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.21.38" data-parsed="Acts_21_38_0_0" data-passage="Acts 21.38" id="Acts.21.38"/><sup>38</sup>Art thou not then the Egyptian, who before these days stirred up to sedition and led out into the wilderness the four thousand men of the Assassins? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.21.39" data-parsed="Acts_21_39_0_0" data-passage="Acts 21.39" id="Acts.21.39"/><sup>39</sup>But Paul said, I am a Jew, of Tarsus in Cilicia, a citizen of no mean city: and I beseech thee, give me leave to speak unto the people.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.21.40" data-parsed="Acts_21_40_0_0" data-passage="Acts 21.40" id="Acts.21.40"/><sup>40</sup>And when he had given him leave, Paul, standing on the stairs, beckoned with the hand unto the people; and when there was made a great silence, he spake unto them in the Hebrew language, saying,</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>