<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Acts 6</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Acts 6</span></div><div data-next="Acts.7" data-prev="Acts.5" data-progress="88.24%" data-shorttitle="" id="Acts.6" title="Acts 6">
<h2 id="Acts.6-p0.1">6</h2>
<p id="Acts.6-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.6.1" data-parsed="Acts_6_1_0_0" data-passage="Acts 6.1" id="Acts.6.1"/><sup>1</sup>Now in these days, when the number of the disciples was multiplying, there arose a murmuring of the Grecian Jews against the Hebrews,
because their widows were neglected in the daily ministration. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.6.2" data-parsed="Acts_6_2_0_0" data-passage="Acts 6.2" id="Acts.6.2"/><sup>2</sup>And the twelve called the multitude of the disciples unto them, and said, It is not fit that we should forsake the word of God, and serve tables. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.6.3" data-parsed="Acts_6_3_0_0" data-passage="Acts 6.3" id="Acts.6.3"/><sup>3</sup>Look ye out therefore, brethren, from among you seven men of good report, full of the Spirit and of wisdom, whom we may appoint over this business. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.6.4" data-parsed="Acts_6_4_0_0" data-passage="Acts 6.4" id="Acts.6.4"/><sup>4</sup>But we will continue stedfastly in prayer, and in the ministry of the word. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.6.5" data-parsed="Acts_6_5_0_0" data-passage="Acts 6.5" id="Acts.6.5"/><sup>5</sup>And the saying pleased the whole multitude: and they chose Stephen, a man full of faith and of the Holy Spirit, and Philip, and Prochorus, and Nicanor, and Timon, and Parmenas, and Nicolaus a proselyte of Antioch; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.6.6" data-parsed="Acts_6_6_0_0" data-passage="Acts 6.6" id="Acts.6.6"/><sup>6</sup>whom they set before the apostles: and when they had prayed, they laid their hands upon them. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.6.7" data-parsed="Acts_6_7_0_0" data-passage="Acts 6.7" id="Acts.6.7"/><sup>7</sup>And the word of God increased; and the number of the disciples multiplied in Jerusalem exceedingly; and a great company of the priests were obedient to the faith. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.6.8" data-parsed="Acts_6_8_0_0" data-passage="Acts 6.8" id="Acts.6.8"/><sup>8</sup>And Stephen, full of grace and power, wrought great wonders and signs among the people. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.6.9" data-parsed="Acts_6_9_0_0" data-passage="Acts 6.9" id="Acts.6.9"/><sup>9</sup>But there arose certain of them that were of the synagogue called <i>the synagogue</i> of the Libertines, and of the Cyrenians, and of the Alexandrians, and of them of Cilicia and Asia, disputing with Stephen. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.6.10" data-parsed="Acts_6_10_0_0" data-passage="Acts 6.10" id="Acts.6.10"/><sup>10</sup>And they were not able to withstand the wisdom and the Spirit by which he spake. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.6.11" data-parsed="Acts_6_11_0_0" data-passage="Acts 6.11" id="Acts.6.11"/><sup>11</sup>Then they suborned men, who said, We have heard him speak blasphemous words against Moses, and <i>against</i> God. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.6.12" data-parsed="Acts_6_12_0_0" data-passage="Acts 6.12" id="Acts.6.12"/><sup>12</sup>And they stirred up the people, and the elders, and the scribes, and came upon him, and seized him, and brought him into the council, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.6.13" data-parsed="Acts_6_13_0_0" data-passage="Acts 6.13" id="Acts.6.13"/><sup>13</sup>and set up false witnesses, who said, This man ceaseth not to speak words against this holy place, and the law: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.6.14" data-parsed="Acts_6_14_0_0" data-passage="Acts 6.14" id="Acts.6.14"/><sup>14</sup>for we have heard him say, that this Jesus of Nazareth shall destroy this place, and shall change the customs which Moses delivered unto us. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Acts.6.15" data-parsed="Acts_6_15_0_0" data-passage="Acts 6.15" id="Acts.6.15"/><sup>15</sup>And all that sat in the council, fastening their eyes on him, saw his face as it had been the face of an angel.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>