<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Amos 7</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Amos 7</span></div><div data-next="Amos.8" data-prev="Amos.6" data-progress="74.91%" data-shorttitle="" id="Amos.7" title="Amos 7">
<h2 id="Amos.7-p0.1">7</h2>
<p id="Amos.7-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Amos.7.1" data-parsed="Amos_7_1_0_0" data-passage="Amos 7.1" id="Amos.7.1"/><sup>1</sup>Thus the Lord Jehovah showed me: and, behold, he formed locusts in the beginning of the shooting up of the latter growth; and, lo, it was the latter growth after the king's mowings. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Amos.7.2" data-parsed="Amos_7_2_0_0" data-passage="Amos 7.2" id="Amos.7.2"/><sup>2</sup>And it came to pass that, when they made an end of eating the grass of the land, then I said, O Lord Jehovah, forgive, I beseech thee: how shall Jacob stand? for he is small.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Amos.7.3" data-parsed="Amos_7_3_0_0" data-passage="Amos 7.3" id="Amos.7.3"/><sup>3</sup>Jehovah repented concerning this: It shall not be, saith Jehovah.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Amos.7.4" data-parsed="Amos_7_4_0_0" data-passage="Amos 7.4" id="Amos.7.4"/><sup>4</sup>Thus the Lord Jehovah showed me: and, behold, the Lord Jehovah called to content by fire; and it devoured the great deep, and would have eaten up the land. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Amos.7.5" data-parsed="Amos_7_5_0_0" data-passage="Amos 7.5" id="Amos.7.5"/><sup>5</sup>Then said I, O Lord Jehovah, cease, I beseech thee: how shall Jacob stand? for he is small. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Amos.7.6" data-parsed="Amos_7_6_0_0" data-passage="Amos 7.6" id="Amos.7.6"/><sup>6</sup>Jehovah repented concerning this: this also shall not be, saith the Lord Jehovah. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Amos.7.7" data-parsed="Amos_7_7_0_0" data-passage="Amos 7.7" id="Amos.7.7"/><sup>7</sup>Thus he showed me: and, behold, the Lord stood beside a wall made by a plumb-line, with a plumb-line in his hand. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Amos.7.8" data-parsed="Amos_7_8_0_0" data-passage="Amos 7.8" id="Amos.7.8"/><sup>8</sup>And Jehovah said unto me, Amos, what seest thou? And I said, A plumb-line. Then said the Lord, Behold, I will set a plumb-line in the midst of my people Israel; I will not again pass by them any more;

<span data-osisref="Bible:Amos.7.9" data-parsed="Amos_7_9_0_0" data-passage="Amos 7.9" id="Amos.7.9"/><sup>9</sup>and the high places of Isaac shall be desolate, and the sanctuaries of Israel shall be laid waste; and I will rise against the house of Jeroboam with the sword. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Amos.7.10" data-parsed="Amos_7_10_0_0" data-passage="Amos 7.10" id="Amos.7.10"/><sup>10</sup>Then Amaziah the priest of Beth-el sent to Jeroboam king of Israel, saying, Amos hath conspired against thee in the midst of the house of Israel: the land is not able to bear all his words. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Amos.7.11" data-parsed="Amos_7_11_0_0" data-passage="Amos 7.11" id="Amos.7.11"/><sup>11</sup>For thus Amos saith, Jeroboam shall die by the sword, and Israel shall surely be led away captive out of his land. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Amos.7.12" data-parsed="Amos_7_12_0_0" data-passage="Amos 7.12" id="Amos.7.12"/><sup>12</sup>Also Amaziah said unto Amos, O thou seer,
go, flee thou away into the land of Judah, and there eat bread, and prophesy there: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Amos.7.13" data-parsed="Amos_7_13_0_0" data-passage="Amos 7.13" id="Amos.7.13"/><sup>13</sup>but prophesy not again any more at Beth-el; for it is the king's sanctuary, and it is a royal house. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Amos.7.14" data-parsed="Amos_7_14_0_0" data-passage="Amos 7.14" id="Amos.7.14"/><sup>14</sup>Then answered Amos, and said to Amaziah, I was no prophet, neither was I a prophet's son; but I was a herdsman, and a dresser of sycomore-trees: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Amos.7.15" data-parsed="Amos_7_15_0_0" data-passage="Amos 7.15" id="Amos.7.15"/><sup>15</sup>and Jehovah took me from following the flock, and Jehovah said unto me, Go, prophesy unto my people Israel. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Amos.7.16" data-parsed="Amos_7_16_0_0" data-passage="Amos 7.16" id="Amos.7.16"/><sup>16</sup>Now therefore hear thou the word of Jehovah: Thou sayest, Prophesy not against Israel, and drop not <i>thy word</i> against the house of Isaac; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Amos.7.17" data-parsed="Amos_7_17_0_0" data-passage="Amos 7.17" id="Amos.7.17"/><sup>17</sup>therefore thus saith Jehovah: Thy wife shall be a harlot in the city, and thy sons and thy daughters shall fall by the sword, and thy land shall be divided by line; and thou thyself shalt die in a land that is unclean, and Israel shall surely be led away captive out of his land.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>