<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Amos 8</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Amos 8</span></div><div data-next="Amos.9" data-prev="Amos.7" data-progress="74.97%" data-shorttitle="" id="Amos.8" title="Amos 8">
<h2 id="Amos.8-p0.1">8</h2>
<p id="Amos.8-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Amos.8.1" data-parsed="Amos_8_1_0_0" data-passage="Amos 8.1" id="Amos.8.1"/><sup>1</sup>Thus the Lord Jehovah showed me: and, behold, a basket of summer fruit. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Amos.8.2" data-parsed="Amos_8_2_0_0" data-passage="Amos 8.2" id="Amos.8.2"/><sup>2</sup>And he said, Amos, what seest thou? And I said, A basket of summer fruit. Then said Jehovah unto me, The end is come upon my people Israel; I will not again pass by them any more. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Amos.8.3" data-parsed="Amos_8_3_0_0" data-passage="Amos 8.3" id="Amos.8.3"/><sup>3</sup>And the songs of the temple shall be wailings in that day, saith the Lord Jehovah: the dead bodies shall be many: in every place shall they cast them forth with silence.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Amos.8.4" data-parsed="Amos_8_4_0_0" data-passage="Amos 8.4" id="Amos.8.4"/><sup>4</sup>Hear this, O ye that would swallow up the needy, and cause the poor of the land to fail, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Amos.8.5" data-parsed="Amos_8_5_0_0" data-passage="Amos 8.5" id="Amos.8.5"/><sup>5</sup>saying, When will the new moon be gone, that we may sell grain? and the sabbath, that we may set forth wheat, making the ephah small, and the shekel great, and dealing falsely with balances of deceit;

<span data-osisref="Bible:Amos.8.6" data-parsed="Amos_8_6_0_0" data-passage="Amos 8.6" id="Amos.8.6"/><sup>6</sup>that we may buy the poor for silver, and the needy for a pair of shoes, and sell the refuse of the wheat? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Amos.8.7" data-parsed="Amos_8_7_0_0" data-passage="Amos 8.7" id="Amos.8.7"/><sup>7</sup>Jehovah hath sworn by the excellency of Jacob, Surely I will never forget any of their works. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Amos.8.8" data-parsed="Amos_8_8_0_0" data-passage="Amos 8.8" id="Amos.8.8"/><sup>8</sup>Shall not the land tremble for this, and every one mourn that dwelleth therein? yea, it shall rise up wholly like the River; and it shall be troubled and sink again, like the River of Egypt. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Amos.8.9" data-parsed="Amos_8_9_0_0" data-passage="Amos 8.9" id="Amos.8.9"/><sup>9</sup>And it shall come to pass in that day, saith the Lord Jehovah, that I will cause the sun to go down at noon, and I will darken the earth in the clear day. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Amos.8.10" data-parsed="Amos_8_10_0_0" data-passage="Amos 8.10" id="Amos.8.10"/><sup>10</sup>And I will turn your feasts into mourning, and all your songs into lamentation; and I will bring sackcloth upon all loins, and baldness upon every head; and I will make it as the mourning for an only son, and the end thereof as a bitter day. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Amos.8.11" data-parsed="Amos_8_11_0_0" data-passage="Amos 8.11" id="Amos.8.11"/><sup>11</sup>Behold, the days come, saith the Lord Jehovah, that I will send a famine in the land, not a famine of bread, nor a thirst for water, but of hearing the words of Jehovah. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Amos.8.12" data-parsed="Amos_8_12_0_0" data-passage="Amos 8.12" id="Amos.8.12"/><sup>12</sup>And they shall wander from sea to sea, and from the north even to the east; they shall run to and fro to seek the word of Jehovah, and shall not find it. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Amos.8.13" data-parsed="Amos_8_13_0_0" data-passage="Amos 8.13" id="Amos.8.13"/><sup>13</sup>In that day shall the fair virgins and the young men faint for thirst. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Amos.8.14" data-parsed="Amos_8_14_0_0" data-passage="Amos 8.14" id="Amos.8.14"/><sup>14</sup>They that swear by the sin of Samaria, and say, As thy god, O Dan, liveth; and, As the way of Beer-sheba liveth; they shall fall, and never rise up again.
</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>