<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Amos 2</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Amos 2</span></div><div data-next="Amos.3" data-prev="Amos.1" data-progress="74.62%" data-shorttitle="" id="Amos.2" title="Amos 2">
<h2 id="Amos.2-p0.1">2</h2>
<p id="Amos.2-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Amos.2.1" data-parsed="Amos_2_1_0_0" data-passage="Amos 2.1" id="Amos.2.1"/><sup>1</sup>Thus saith Jehovah: For three transgressions of Moab, yea, for four, I will not turn away the punishment thereof; because he burned the bones of the king of Edom into lime: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Amos.2.2" data-parsed="Amos_2_2_0_0" data-passage="Amos 2.2" id="Amos.2.2"/><sup>2</sup>but I will send a fire upon Moab, and it shall devour the palaces of Kerioth; and Moab shall die with tumult, with shouting, and with the sound of the trumpet; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Amos.2.3" data-parsed="Amos_2_3_0_0" data-passage="Amos 2.3" id="Amos.2.3"/><sup>3</sup>and I will cut off the judge from the midst thereof, and will slay all the princes thereof with him, saith Jehovah. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Amos.2.4" data-parsed="Amos_2_4_0_0" data-passage="Amos 2.4" id="Amos.2.4"/><sup>4</sup>Thus saith Jehovah: For three transgressions of Judah, yea, for four, I will not turn away the punishment thereof; because they have rejected the law of Jehovah, and have not kept his statutes, and their lies have caused them to err, after which their fathers did walk: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Amos.2.5" data-parsed="Amos_2_5_0_0" data-passage="Amos 2.5" id="Amos.2.5"/><sup>5</sup>but I will send a fire upon Judah, and it shall devour the palaces of Jerusalem.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Amos.2.6" data-parsed="Amos_2_6_0_0" data-passage="Amos 2.6" id="Amos.2.6"/><sup>6</sup>Thus saith Jehovah: For three transgressions of Israel, yea, for four, I will not turn away the punishment thereof; because they have sold the righteous for silver, and the needy for a pair of shoes- 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Amos.2.7" data-parsed="Amos_2_7_0_0" data-passage="Amos 2.7" id="Amos.2.7"/><sup>7</sup>they that pant after the dust of the earth on the head of the poor, and turn aside the way of the meek: and a man and his father go unto the <i>same</i> maiden, to profane my holy name: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Amos.2.8" data-parsed="Amos_2_8_0_0" data-passage="Amos 2.8" id="Amos.2.8"/><sup>8</sup>and they lay themselves down beside every altar upon clothes taken in pledge; and in the house of their God they drink the wine of such as have been fined. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Amos.2.9" data-parsed="Amos_2_9_0_0" data-passage="Amos 2.9" id="Amos.2.9"/><sup>9</sup>Yet destroyed I the Amorite before them, whose height was like the height of the cedars, and he was strong as the oaks; yet I destroyed his fruit from above, and his roots from beneath.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Amos.2.10" data-parsed="Amos_2_10_0_0" data-passage="Amos 2.10" id="Amos.2.10"/><sup>10</sup>Also I brought you up out of the land of Egypt, and led you forty years in the wilderness, to possess the land of the Amorite. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Amos.2.11" data-parsed="Amos_2_11_0_0" data-passage="Amos 2.11" id="Amos.2.11"/><sup>11</sup>And I raised up of your sons for prophets, and of your young men for Nazirites. Is it not even thus, O ye children of Israel? saith Jehovah. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Amos.2.12" data-parsed="Amos_2_12_0_0" data-passage="Amos 2.12" id="Amos.2.12"/><sup>12</sup>But ye gave the Nazirites wine to drink, and commanded the prophets, saying, Prophesy not.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Amos.2.13" data-parsed="Amos_2_13_0_0" data-passage="Amos 2.13" id="Amos.2.13"/><sup>13</sup>Behold, I will press <i>you</i> in your place, as a cart presseth that is full of sheaves. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Amos.2.14" data-parsed="Amos_2_14_0_0" data-passage="Amos 2.14" id="Amos.2.14"/><sup>14</sup>And flight shall perish from the swift; and the strong shall not strengthen his force; neither shall the mighty deliver himself; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Amos.2.15" data-parsed="Amos_2_15_0_0" data-passage="Amos 2.15" id="Amos.2.15"/><sup>15</sup>neither shall he stand that handleth the bow; and he that is swift of foot shall not deliver <i>himself</i>; neither shall he that rideth the horse deliver himself; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Amos.2.16" data-parsed="Amos_2_16_0_0" data-passage="Amos 2.16" id="Amos.2.16"/><sup>16</sup>and he that is courageous among the mighty shall flee away naked in that day, saith Jehovah.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>