<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Amos 9</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Amos 9</span></div><div data-next="Obad" data-prev="Amos.8" data-progress="75.02%" data-shorttitle="" id="Amos.9" title="Amos 9">
<h2 id="Amos.9-p0.1">9</h2>
<p id="Amos.9-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Amos.9.1" data-parsed="Amos_9_1_0_0" data-passage="Amos 9.1" id="Amos.9.1"/><sup>1</sup>I saw the Lord standing beside the altar: and he said, Smite the capitals, that the thresholds may shake; and break them in pieces on the head of all of them; and I will slay the last of them with the sword: there shall not one of them flee away, and there shall not one of them escape.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Amos.9.2" data-parsed="Amos_9_2_0_0" data-passage="Amos 9.2" id="Amos.9.2"/><sup>2</sup>Though they dig into Sheol, thence shall my hand take them; and though they climb up to heaven, thence will I bring them down. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Amos.9.3" data-parsed="Amos_9_3_0_0" data-passage="Amos 9.3" id="Amos.9.3"/><sup>3</sup>And though they hide themselves in the top of Carmel, I will search and take them out thence; and though they be hid from my sight in the bottom of the sea, thence will I command the serpent, and it shall bite them. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Amos.9.4" data-parsed="Amos_9_4_0_0" data-passage="Amos 9.4" id="Amos.9.4"/><sup>4</sup>And though they go into captivity before their enemies, thence will I command the sword, and it shall slay them: and I will set mine eyes upon them for evil, and not for good.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Amos.9.5" data-parsed="Amos_9_5_0_0" data-passage="Amos 9.5" id="Amos.9.5"/><sup>5</sup>For the Lord, Jehovah of hosts, <i>is</i> he that toucheth the land and it melteth, and all that dwell therein shall mourn; and it shall rise up wholly like the River, and shall sink again, like the River of Egypt;

<span data-osisref="Bible:Amos.9.6" data-parsed="Amos_9_6_0_0" data-passage="Amos 9.6" id="Amos.9.6"/><sup>6</sup><i>it is</i> he that buildeth his chambers in the heavens, and hath founded his vault upon the earth; he that calleth for the waters of the sea, and poureth them out upon the face of the earth; Jehovah is his name.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Amos.9.7" data-parsed="Amos_9_7_0_0" data-passage="Amos 9.7" id="Amos.9.7"/><sup>7</sup>Are ye not as the children of the Ethiopians unto me, O children of Israel? saith Jehovah. Have not I brought up Israel out of the land of Egypt, and the Philistines from Caphtor, and the Syrians from Kir? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Amos.9.8" data-parsed="Amos_9_8_0_0" data-passage="Amos 9.8" id="Amos.9.8"/><sup>8</sup>Behold, the eyes of the Lord Jehovah are upon the sinful kingdom, and I will destroy it from off the face of the earth; save that I will not utterly destroy the house of Jacob, saith Jehovah. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Amos.9.9" data-parsed="Amos_9_9_0_0" data-passage="Amos 9.9" id="Amos.9.9"/><sup>9</sup>For, lo, I will command, and I will sift the house of Israel among all the nations, like as <i>grain</i> is sifted in a sieve, yet shall not the least kernel fall upon the earth. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Amos.9.10" data-parsed="Amos_9_10_0_0" data-passage="Amos 9.10" id="Amos.9.10"/><sup>10</sup>All the sinners of my people shall die by the sword, who say, The evil shall not overtake nor meet us. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Amos.9.11" data-parsed="Amos_9_11_0_0" data-passage="Amos 9.11" id="Amos.9.11"/><sup>11</sup>In that day will I raise up the tabernacle of David that is fallen, and close up the breaches thereof; and I will raise up its ruins, and I will build it as in the days of old; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Amos.9.12" data-parsed="Amos_9_12_0_0" data-passage="Amos 9.12" id="Amos.9.12"/><sup>12</sup>that they may possess the remnant of Edom, and all the nations that are called by my name, saith Jehovah that doeth this. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Amos.9.13" data-parsed="Amos_9_13_0_0" data-passage="Amos 9.13" id="Amos.9.13"/><sup>13</sup>Behold, the days come, saith Jehovah, that the plowman shall overtake the reaper, and the treader of grapes him that soweth seed; and the mountains shall drop sweet wine, and all the hills shall melt. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Amos.9.14" data-parsed="Amos_9_14_0_0" data-passage="Amos 9.14" id="Amos.9.14"/><sup>14</sup>And I will bring back the captivity of my people Israel, and they shall build the waste cities, and inhabit them; and they shall plant vineyards, and drink the wine thereof; they shall also make gardens, and eat the fruit of them. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Amos.9.15" data-parsed="Amos_9_15_0_0" data-passage="Amos 9.15" id="Amos.9.15"/><sup>15</sup>And I will plant them upon their land, and they shall no more be plucked up out of their land which I have given them, saith Jehovah thy God.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>