<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Amos 5</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Amos 5</span></div><div data-next="Amos.6" data-prev="Amos.4" data-progress="74.78%" data-shorttitle="" id="Amos.5" title="Amos 5">
<h2 id="Amos.5-p0.1">5</h2>
<p id="Amos.5-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Amos.5.1" data-parsed="Amos_5_1_0_0" data-passage="Amos 5.1" id="Amos.5.1"/><sup>1</sup>Hear ye this word which I take up for a lamentation over you, O house of Israel. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Amos.5.2" data-parsed="Amos_5_2_0_0" data-passage="Amos 5.2" id="Amos.5.2"/><sup>2</sup>The virgin of Israel is fallen; she shall no more rise: she is cast down upon her land; there is none to raise her up. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Amos.5.3" data-parsed="Amos_5_3_0_0" data-passage="Amos 5.3" id="Amos.5.3"/><sup>3</sup>For thus saith the Lord Jehovah: The city that went forth a thousand shall have a hundred left, and that which went forth a hundred shall have ten left, to the house of Israel. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Amos.5.4" data-parsed="Amos_5_4_0_0" data-passage="Amos 5.4" id="Amos.5.4"/><sup>4</sup>For thus saith Jehovah unto the house of Israel, Seek ye me, and ye shall live; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Amos.5.5" data-parsed="Amos_5_5_0_0" data-passage="Amos 5.5" id="Amos.5.5"/><sup>5</sup>but seek not Beth-el, nor enter into Gilgal, and pass not to Beer-sheba: for Gilgal shall surely go into captivity, and Beth-el shall come to nought. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Amos.5.6" data-parsed="Amos_5_6_0_0" data-passage="Amos 5.6" id="Amos.5.6"/><sup>6</sup>Seek Jehovah, and ye shall live; lest he break out like fire in the house of Joseph, and it devour, and there be none to quench it in Beth-el. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Amos.5.7" data-parsed="Amos_5_7_0_0" data-passage="Amos 5.7" id="Amos.5.7"/><sup>7</sup>Ye who turn justice to wormwood, and cast down righteousness to the earth, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Amos.5.8" data-parsed="Amos_5_8_0_0" data-passage="Amos 5.8" id="Amos.5.8"/><sup>8</sup><i>seek him</i> that maketh the Pleiades and Orion, and turneth the shadow of death into the morning, and maketh the day dark with night; that calleth for the waters of the sea, and poureth them out upon the face of the earth (Jehovah is his name); 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Amos.5.9" data-parsed="Amos_5_9_0_0" data-passage="Amos 5.9" id="Amos.5.9"/><sup>9</sup>that bringeth sudden destruction upon the strong, so that destruction cometh upon the fortress. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Amos.5.10" data-parsed="Amos_5_10_0_0" data-passage="Amos 5.10" id="Amos.5.10"/><sup>10</sup>They hate him that reproveth in the gate, and they abhor him that speaketh uprightly. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Amos.5.11" data-parsed="Amos_5_11_0_0" data-passage="Amos 5.11" id="Amos.5.11"/><sup>11</sup>Forasmuch therefore as ye trample upon the poor, and take exactions from him of wheat: ye have built houses of hewn stone, but ye shall not dwell in them; ye have planted pleasant vineyards, but ye shall not drink the wine thereof. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Amos.5.12" data-parsed="Amos_5_12_0_0" data-passage="Amos 5.12" id="Amos.5.12"/><sup>12</sup>For I know how manifold are your transgressions, and how mighty are your sins-ye that afflict the just, that take a bribe, and that turn aside the needy in the gate <i>from their right</i>. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Amos.5.13" data-parsed="Amos_5_13_0_0" data-passage="Amos 5.13" id="Amos.5.13"/><sup>13</sup>Therefore he that is prudent shall keep silence in such a time; for it is an evil time. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Amos.5.14" data-parsed="Amos_5_14_0_0" data-passage="Amos 5.14" id="Amos.5.14"/><sup>14</sup>Seek good, and not evil, that ye may live; and so Jehovah, the God of hosts, will be with you, as ye say.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Amos.5.15" data-parsed="Amos_5_15_0_0" data-passage="Amos 5.15" id="Amos.5.15"/><sup>15</sup>Hate the evil, and love the good, and establish justice in the gate: it may be that Jehovah, the God of hosts, will be gracious unto the remnant of Joseph. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Amos.5.16" data-parsed="Amos_5_16_0_0" data-passage="Amos 5.16" id="Amos.5.16"/><sup>16</sup>Therefore thus saith Jehovah, the God of hosts, the Lord: Wailing shall be in all the broad ways; and they shall say in all the streets, Alas! Alas! and they shall call the husbandman to mourning, and such as are skilful in lamentation to wailing. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Amos.5.17" data-parsed="Amos_5_17_0_0" data-passage="Amos 5.17" id="Amos.5.17"/><sup>17</sup>And in all vineyards shall be wailing; for I will pass through the midst of thee, saith Jehovah. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Amos.5.18" data-parsed="Amos_5_18_0_0" data-passage="Amos 5.18" id="Amos.5.18"/><sup>18</sup>Woe unto you that desire the day of Jehovah! Wherefore would ye have the day of Jehovah? It is darkness, and not light. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Amos.5.19" data-parsed="Amos_5_19_0_0" data-passage="Amos 5.19" id="Amos.5.19"/><sup>19</sup>As if a man did flee from a lion, and a bear met him; or went into the house and leaned his hand on the wall, and a serpent bit him. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Amos.5.20" data-parsed="Amos_5_20_0_0" data-passage="Amos 5.20" id="Amos.5.20"/><sup>20</sup>Shall not the day of Jehovah be darkness, and not light? even very dark, and no brightness in it? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Amos.5.21" data-parsed="Amos_5_21_0_0" data-passage="Amos 5.21" id="Amos.5.21"/><sup>21</sup>I hate, I despise your feasts, and I will take no delight in your solemn assemblies.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Amos.5.22" data-parsed="Amos_5_22_0_0" data-passage="Amos 5.22" id="Amos.5.22"/><sup>22</sup>Yea, though ye offer me your burnt-offerings and meal-offerings, I will not accept them; neither will I regard the peace-offerings of your fat beasts. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Amos.5.23" data-parsed="Amos_5_23_0_0" data-passage="Amos 5.23" id="Amos.5.23"/><sup>23</sup>Take thou away from me the noise of thy songs; for I will not hear the melody of thy viols. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Amos.5.24" data-parsed="Amos_5_24_0_0" data-passage="Amos 5.24" id="Amos.5.24"/><sup>24</sup>But let justice roll down as waters, and righteousness as a mighty stream. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Amos.5.25" data-parsed="Amos_5_25_0_0" data-passage="Amos 5.25" id="Amos.5.25"/><sup>25</sup>Did ye bring unto me sacrifices and offerings in the wilderness forty years, O house of Israel? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Amos.5.26" data-parsed="Amos_5_26_0_0" data-passage="Amos 5.26" id="Amos.5.26"/><sup>26</sup>Yea, ye have borne the tabernacle of your king and the shrine of your images, the star of your god, which ye made to yourselves. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Amos.5.27" data-parsed="Amos_5_27_0_0" data-passage="Amos 5.27" id="Amos.5.27"/><sup>27</sup>Therefore will I cause you to go into captivity beyond Damascus, saith Jehovah, whose name is the God of hosts.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>