<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Colossians 3</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Colossians 3</span></div><div data-next="Col.4" data-prev="Col.2" data-progress="95.15%" data-shorttitle="" id="Col.3" title="Colossians 3">
<h2 id="Col.3-p0.1">3</h2>
<p id="Col.3-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Col.3.1" data-parsed="Col_3_1_0_0" data-passage="Col 3.1" id="Col.3.1"/><sup>1</sup>If then ye were raised together with Christ, seek the things that are above, where Christ is, seated on the right hand of God. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Col.3.2" data-parsed="Col_3_2_0_0" data-passage="Col 3.2" id="Col.3.2"/><sup>2</sup>Set your mind on the things that are above, not on the things that are upon the earth.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Col.3.3" data-parsed="Col_3_3_0_0" data-passage="Col 3.3" id="Col.3.3"/><sup>3</sup>For ye died, and your life is hid with Christ in God. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Col.3.4" data-parsed="Col_3_4_0_0" data-passage="Col 3.4" id="Col.3.4"/><sup>4</sup>When Christ,
<i>who is</i> our life, shall be manifested, then shall ye also with him be manifested in glory. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Col.3.5" data-parsed="Col_3_5_0_0" data-passage="Col 3.5" id="Col.3.5"/><sup>5</sup>Put to death therefore your members which are upon the earth: fornication, uncleanness, passion, evil desire, and covetousness,
which is idolatry; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Col.3.6" data-parsed="Col_3_6_0_0" data-passage="Col 3.6" id="Col.3.6"/><sup>6</sup>for which things' sake cometh the wrath of God upon the sons of disobedience: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Col.3.7" data-parsed="Col_3_7_0_0" data-passage="Col 3.7" id="Col.3.7"/><sup>7</sup>wherein ye also once walked, when ye lived in these things; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Col.3.8" data-parsed="Col_3_8_0_0" data-passage="Col 3.8" id="Col.3.8"/><sup>8</sup>but now do ye also put them all away: anger, wrath,
malice, railing, shameful speaking out of your mouth: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Col.3.9" data-parsed="Col_3_9_0_0" data-passage="Col 3.9" id="Col.3.9"/><sup>9</sup>lie not one to another; seeing that ye have put off the old man with his doings, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Col.3.10" data-parsed="Col_3_10_0_0" data-passage="Col 3.10" id="Col.3.10"/><sup>10</sup>and have put on the new man, that is being renewed unto knowledge after the image of him that created him: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Col.3.11" data-parsed="Col_3_11_0_0" data-passage="Col 3.11" id="Col.3.11"/><sup>11</sup>where there cannot be Greek and Jew,
circumcision and uncircumcision, barbarian, Scythian, bondman, freeman; but Christ is all, and in all. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Col.3.12" data-parsed="Col_3_12_0_0" data-passage="Col 3.12" id="Col.3.12"/><sup>12</sup>Put on therefore, as God's elect, holy and beloved, a heart of compassion, kindness, lowliness, meekness, longsuffering;

<span data-osisref="Bible:Col.3.13" data-parsed="Col_3_13_0_0" data-passage="Col 3.13" id="Col.3.13"/><sup>13</sup>forbearing one another, and forgiving each other, if any man have a complaint against any; even as the Lord forgave you, so also do ye: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Col.3.14" data-parsed="Col_3_14_0_0" data-passage="Col 3.14" id="Col.3.14"/><sup>14</sup>and above all these things <i>put on</i> love, which is the bond of perfectness.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Col.3.15" data-parsed="Col_3_15_0_0" data-passage="Col 3.15" id="Col.3.15"/><sup>15</sup>And let the peace of Christ rule in your hearts, to the which also ye were called in one body; and be ye thankful. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Col.3.16" data-parsed="Col_3_16_0_0" data-passage="Col 3.16" id="Col.3.16"/><sup>16</sup>Let the word of Christ dwell in you richly; in all wisdom teaching and admonishing one another with psalms <i>and</i> hymns <i>and</i> spiritual songs, singing with grace in your hearts unto God. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Col.3.17" data-parsed="Col_3_17_0_0" data-passage="Col 3.17" id="Col.3.17"/><sup>17</sup>And whatsoever ye do, in word or in deed,
<i>do</i> all in the name of the Lord Jesus, giving thanks to God the Father through him. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Col.3.18" data-parsed="Col_3_18_0_0" data-passage="Col 3.18" id="Col.3.18"/><sup>18</sup>Wives, be in subjection to your husbands, as is fitting in the Lord. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Col.3.19" data-parsed="Col_3_19_0_0" data-passage="Col 3.19" id="Col.3.19"/><sup>19</sup>Husbands, love your wives, and be not bitter against them.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Col.3.20" data-parsed="Col_3_20_0_0" data-passage="Col 3.20" id="Col.3.20"/><sup>20</sup>Children, obey your parents in all things, for this is well-pleasing in the Lord. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Col.3.21" data-parsed="Col_3_21_0_0" data-passage="Col 3.21" id="Col.3.21"/><sup>21</sup>Fathers, provoke not your children, that they be not discouraged. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Col.3.22" data-parsed="Col_3_22_0_0" data-passage="Col 3.22" id="Col.3.22"/><sup>22</sup>Servants, obey in all things them that are your masters according to the flesh; not with eye-service, as men-pleasers, but in singleness of heart, fearing the Lord: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Col.3.23" data-parsed="Col_3_23_0_0" data-passage="Col 3.23" id="Col.3.23"/><sup>23</sup>whatsoever ye do, work heartily,
as unto the Lord, and not unto men; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Col.3.24" data-parsed="Col_3_24_0_0" data-passage="Col 3.24" id="Col.3.24"/><sup>24</sup>knowing that from the Lord ye shall receive the recompense of the inheritance: ye serve the Lord Christ.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Col.3.25" data-parsed="Col_3_25_0_0" data-passage="Col 3.25" id="Col.3.25"/><sup>25</sup>For he that doeth wrong shall receive again for the wrong that he hath done: and there is no respect of persons.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>