<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Colossians 4</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Colossians 4</span></div><div data-next="iThess" data-prev="Col.3" data-progress="95.21%" data-shorttitle="" id="Col.4" title="Colossians 4">
<h2 id="Col.4-p0.1">4</h2>
<p id="Col.4-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Col.4.1" data-parsed="Col_4_1_0_0" data-passage="Col 4.1" id="Col.4.1"/><sup>1</sup>Masters, render unto your servants that which is just and equal; knowing that ye also have a Master in heaven. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Col.4.2" data-parsed="Col_4_2_0_0" data-passage="Col 4.2" id="Col.4.2"/><sup>2</sup>Continue stedfastly in prayer,
watching therein with thanksgiving; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Col.4.3" data-parsed="Col_4_3_0_0" data-passage="Col 4.3" id="Col.4.3"/><sup>3</sup>withal praying for us also, that God may open unto us a door for the word, to speak the mystery of Christ, for which I am also in bonds; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Col.4.4" data-parsed="Col_4_4_0_0" data-passage="Col 4.4" id="Col.4.4"/><sup>4</sup>that I may make it manifest, as I ought to speak. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Col.4.5" data-parsed="Col_4_5_0_0" data-passage="Col 4.5" id="Col.4.5"/><sup>5</sup>Walk in wisdom toward them that are without, redeeming the time.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Col.4.6" data-parsed="Col_4_6_0_0" data-passage="Col 4.6" id="Col.4.6"/><sup>6</sup>Let your speech be always with grace, seasoned with salt, that ye may know how ye ought to answer each one. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Col.4.7" data-parsed="Col_4_7_0_0" data-passage="Col 4.7" id="Col.4.7"/><sup>7</sup>All my affairs shall Tychicus make known unto you, the beloved brother and faithful minister and fellow-servant in the Lord: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Col.4.8" data-parsed="Col_4_8_0_0" data-passage="Col 4.8" id="Col.4.8"/><sup>8</sup>whom I have sent you for this very purpose, that ye may know our state, and that he may comfort your hearts; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Col.4.9" data-parsed="Col_4_9_0_0" data-passage="Col 4.9" id="Col.4.9"/><sup>9</sup>together with Onesimus, the faithful and beloved brother, who is one of you. They shall make known unto you all things that <i>are done</i> here. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Col.4.10" data-parsed="Col_4_10_0_0" data-passage="Col 4.10" id="Col.4.10"/><sup>10</sup>Aristarchus my fellow-prisoner saluteth you, and Mark, the cousin of Barnabas (touching whom ye received commandments; if he come unto you, receive him), 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Col.4.11" data-parsed="Col_4_11_0_0" data-passage="Col 4.11" id="Col.4.11"/><sup>11</sup>and Jesus that is called Justus, who are of the circumcision: these only <i>are my</i> fellow-workers unto the kingdom of God, men that have been a comfort unto me. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Col.4.12" data-parsed="Col_4_12_0_0" data-passage="Col 4.12" id="Col.4.12"/><sup>12</sup>Epaphras, who is one of you, a servant of Christ Jesus,
saluteth you, always striving for you in his prayers, that ye may stand perfect and fully assured in all the will of God. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Col.4.13" data-parsed="Col_4_13_0_0" data-passage="Col 4.13" id="Col.4.13"/><sup>13</sup>For I bear him witness, that he hath much labor for you, and for them in Laodicea, and for them in Hierapolis. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Col.4.14" data-parsed="Col_4_14_0_0" data-passage="Col 4.14" id="Col.4.14"/><sup>14</sup>Luke, the beloved physician, and Demas salute you.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Col.4.15" data-parsed="Col_4_15_0_0" data-passage="Col 4.15" id="Col.4.15"/><sup>15</sup>Salute the brethren that are in Laodicea, and Nymphas, and the church that is in their house. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Col.4.16" data-parsed="Col_4_16_0_0" data-passage="Col 4.16" id="Col.4.16"/><sup>16</sup>And when this epistle hath been read among you,
cause that it be read also in the church of the Laodiceans; and that ye also read the epistle from Laodicea. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Col.4.17" data-parsed="Col_4_17_0_0" data-passage="Col 4.17" id="Col.4.17"/><sup>17</sup>And say to Archippus, Take heed to the ministry which thou hast received in the Lord, that thou fulfil it. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Col.4.18" data-parsed="Col_4_18_0_0" data-passage="Col 4.18" id="Col.4.18"/><sup>18</sup>The salutation of me Paul with mine own hand. Remember my bonds. Grace be with you.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>