<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Daniel 10</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Daniel 10</span></div><div data-next="Dan.11" data-prev="Dan.9" data-progress="73.33%" data-shorttitle="" id="Dan.10" title="Daniel 10">
<h2 id="Dan.10-p0.1">10</h2>
<p id="Dan.10-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Dan.10.1" data-parsed="Dan_10_1_0_0" data-passage="Dan 10.1" id="Dan.10.1"/><sup>1</sup>In the third year of Cyrus king of Persia a thing was revealed unto Daniel, whose name was called Belteshazzar; and the thing was true, even a great warfare: and he understood the thing, and had understanding of the vision. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Dan.10.2" data-parsed="Dan_10_2_0_0" data-passage="Dan 10.2" id="Dan.10.2"/><sup>2</sup>In those days I, Daniel, was mourning three whole weeks. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Dan.10.3" data-parsed="Dan_10_3_0_0" data-passage="Dan 10.3" id="Dan.10.3"/><sup>3</sup>I ate no pleasant bread, neither came flesh nor wine into my mouth, neither did I anoint myself at all, till three whole weeks were fulfilled. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Dan.10.4" data-parsed="Dan_10_4_0_0" data-passage="Dan 10.4" id="Dan.10.4"/><sup>4</sup>And in the four and twentieth day of the first month, as I was by the side of the great river, which is Hiddekel, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Dan.10.5" data-parsed="Dan_10_5_0_0" data-passage="Dan 10.5" id="Dan.10.5"/><sup>5</sup>I lifted up mine eyes, and looked, and,
behold, a man clothed in linen, whose loins were girded with pure gold of Uphaz: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Dan.10.6" data-parsed="Dan_10_6_0_0" data-passage="Dan 10.6" id="Dan.10.6"/><sup>6</sup>his body also was like the beryl, and his face as the appearance of lightning, and his eyes as flaming torches, and his arms and his feet like unto burnished brass, and the voice of his words like the voice of a multitude. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Dan.10.7" data-parsed="Dan_10_7_0_0" data-passage="Dan 10.7" id="Dan.10.7"/><sup>7</sup>And I, Daniel, alone saw the vision; for the men that were with me saw not the vision; but a great quaking fell upon them, and they fled to hide themselves. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Dan.10.8" data-parsed="Dan_10_8_0_0" data-passage="Dan 10.8" id="Dan.10.8"/><sup>8</sup>So I was left alone, and saw this great vision, and there remained no strength in me; for my comeliness was turned in me into corruption, and I retained no strength. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Dan.10.9" data-parsed="Dan_10_9_0_0" data-passage="Dan 10.9" id="Dan.10.9"/><sup>9</sup>Yet heard I the voice of his words; and when I heard the voice of his words, then was I fallen into a deep sleep on my face, with my face toward the ground. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Dan.10.10" data-parsed="Dan_10_10_0_0" data-passage="Dan 10.10" id="Dan.10.10"/><sup>10</sup>And, behold, a hand touched me, which set me upon my knees and upon the palms of my hands.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Dan.10.11" data-parsed="Dan_10_11_0_0" data-passage="Dan 10.11" id="Dan.10.11"/><sup>11</sup>And he said unto me, O Daniel, thou man greatly beloved, understand the words that I speak unto thee, and stand upright; for unto thee am I now sent.
And when he had spoken this word unto me, I stood trembling. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Dan.10.12" data-parsed="Dan_10_12_0_0" data-passage="Dan 10.12" id="Dan.10.12"/><sup>12</sup>Then said he unto me, Fear not, Daniel; for from the first day that thou didst set thy heart to understand, and to humble thyself before thy God, thy words were heard: and I am come for thy words' sake. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Dan.10.13" data-parsed="Dan_10_13_0_0" data-passage="Dan 10.13" id="Dan.10.13"/><sup>13</sup>But the prince of the kingdom of Persia withstood me one and twenty days; but, lo, Michael, one of the chief princes, came to help me: and I remained there with the kings of Persia. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Dan.10.14" data-parsed="Dan_10_14_0_0" data-passage="Dan 10.14" id="Dan.10.14"/><sup>14</sup>Now I am come to make thee understand what shall befall thy people in the latter days; for the vision is yet for <i>many</i> days:

<span data-osisref="Bible:Dan.10.15" data-parsed="Dan_10_15_0_0" data-passage="Dan 10.15" id="Dan.10.15"/><sup>15</sup>and when he had spoken unto me according to these words, I set my face toward the ground, and was dumb. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Dan.10.16" data-parsed="Dan_10_16_0_0" data-passage="Dan 10.16" id="Dan.10.16"/><sup>16</sup>And, behold, one in the likeness of the sons of men touched my lips: then I opened my mouth, and spake and said unto him that stood before me, O my lord, by reason of the vision my sorrows are turned upon me, and I retain no strength. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Dan.10.17" data-parsed="Dan_10_17_0_0" data-passage="Dan 10.17" id="Dan.10.17"/><sup>17</sup>For how can the servant of this my lord talk with this my lord? for as for me, straightway there remained no strength in me, neither was there breath left in me. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Dan.10.18" data-parsed="Dan_10_18_0_0" data-passage="Dan 10.18" id="Dan.10.18"/><sup>18</sup>Then there touched me again one like the appearance of a man, and he strengthened me. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Dan.10.19" data-parsed="Dan_10_19_0_0" data-passage="Dan 10.19" id="Dan.10.19"/><sup>19</sup>And he said, O man greatly beloved, fear not: peace be unto thee,
be strong, yea, be strong. And when he spake unto me, I was strengthened, and said, Let my lord speak; for thou hast strengthened me. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Dan.10.20" data-parsed="Dan_10_20_0_0" data-passage="Dan 10.20" id="Dan.10.20"/><sup>20</sup>Then said he,
Knowest thou wherefore I am come unto thee? and now will I return to fight with the prince of Persia: and when I go forth, lo, the prince of Greece shall come. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Dan.10.21" data-parsed="Dan_10_21_0_0" data-passage="Dan 10.21" id="Dan.10.21"/><sup>21</sup>But I will tell thee that which is inscribed in the writing of truth: and there is none that holdeth with me against these, but Michael your prince.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>