<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Daniel 12</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Daniel 12</span></div><div data-next="Hos" data-prev="Dan.11" data-progress="73.60%" data-shorttitle="" id="Dan.12" title="Daniel 12">
<h2 id="Dan.12-p0.1">12</h2>
<p id="Dan.12-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Dan.12.1" data-parsed="Dan_12_1_0_0" data-passage="Dan 12.1" id="Dan.12.1"/><sup>1</sup>And at that time shall Michael stand up, the great prince who standeth for the children of thy people; and there shall be a time of trouble, such as never was since there was a nation even to that same time:
and at that time thy people shall be delivered, every one that shall be found written in the book. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Dan.12.2" data-parsed="Dan_12_2_0_0" data-passage="Dan 12.2" id="Dan.12.2"/><sup>2</sup>And many of them that sleep in the dust of the earth shall awake, some to everlasting life, and some to shame and everlasting contempt. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Dan.12.3" data-parsed="Dan_12_3_0_0" data-passage="Dan 12.3" id="Dan.12.3"/><sup>3</sup>And they that are wise shall shine as the brightness of the firmament; and they that turn many to righteousness as the stars for ever and ever. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Dan.12.4" data-parsed="Dan_12_4_0_0" data-passage="Dan 12.4" id="Dan.12.4"/><sup>4</sup>But thou, O Daniel, shut up the words, and seal the book, even to the time of the end: many shall run to and fro, and knowledge shall be increased. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Dan.12.5" data-parsed="Dan_12_5_0_0" data-passage="Dan 12.5" id="Dan.12.5"/><sup>5</sup>Then I, Daniel, looked, and, behold, there stood other two, the one on the brink of the river on this side, and the other on the brink of the river on that side. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Dan.12.6" data-parsed="Dan_12_6_0_0" data-passage="Dan 12.6" id="Dan.12.6"/><sup>6</sup>And one said to the man clothed in linen, who was above the waters of the river, How long shall it be to the end of these wonders? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Dan.12.7" data-parsed="Dan_12_7_0_0" data-passage="Dan 12.7" id="Dan.12.7"/><sup>7</sup>And I heard the man clothed in linen, who was above the waters of the river, when he held up his right hand and his left hand unto heaven, and sware by him that liveth for ever that it shall be for a time, times, and a half; and when they have made an end of breaking in pieces the power of the holy people, all these things shall be finished.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Dan.12.8" data-parsed="Dan_12_8_0_0" data-passage="Dan 12.8" id="Dan.12.8"/><sup>8</sup>And I heard, but I understood not: then said I, O my lord, what shall be the issue of these things? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Dan.12.9" data-parsed="Dan_12_9_0_0" data-passage="Dan 12.9" id="Dan.12.9"/><sup>9</sup>And he said, Go thy way, Daniel; for the words are shut up and sealed till the time of the end. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Dan.12.10" data-parsed="Dan_12_10_0_0" data-passage="Dan 12.10" id="Dan.12.10"/><sup>10</sup>Many shall purify themselves, and make themselves white, and be refined; but the wicked shall do wickedly; and none of the wicked shall understand; but they that are wise shall understand. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Dan.12.11" data-parsed="Dan_12_11_0_0" data-passage="Dan 12.11" id="Dan.12.11"/><sup>11</sup>And from the time that the continual <i>burnt-offering</i> shall be taken away, and the abomination that maketh desolate set up, there shall be a thousand and two hundred and ninety days.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Dan.12.12" data-parsed="Dan_12_12_0_0" data-passage="Dan 12.12" id="Dan.12.12"/><sup>12</sup>Blessed is he that waiteth, and cometh to the thousand three hundred and five and thirty days. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Dan.12.13" data-parsed="Dan_12_13_0_0" data-passage="Dan 12.13" id="Dan.12.13"/><sup>13</sup>But go thou thy way till the end be; for thou shalt rest, and shalt stand in thy lot, at the end of the days.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>