<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Daniel 3</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Daniel 3</span></div><div data-next="Dan.4" data-prev="Dan.2" data-progress="72.45%" data-shorttitle="" id="Dan.3" title="Daniel 3">
<h2 id="Dan.3-p0.1">3</h2>
<p id="Dan.3-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Dan.3.1" data-parsed="Dan_3_1_0_0" data-passage="Dan 3.1" id="Dan.3.1"/><sup>1</sup>Nebuchadnezzar the king made an image of gold, whose height was threescore cubits, and the breadth thereof six cubits: he set it up in the plain of Dura, in the province of Babylon. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Dan.3.2" data-parsed="Dan_3_2_0_0" data-passage="Dan 3.2" id="Dan.3.2"/><sup>2</sup>Then Nebuchadnezzar the king sent to gather together the satraps, the deputies, and the governors, the judges, the treasurers, the counsellors, the sheriffs, and all the rulers of the provinces, to come to the dedication of the image which Nebuchadnezzar the king had set up. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Dan.3.3" data-parsed="Dan_3_3_0_0" data-passage="Dan 3.3" id="Dan.3.3"/><sup>3</sup>Then the satraps, the deputies, and the governors,
the judges, the treasurers, the counsellors, the sheriffs, and all the rulers of the provinces, were gathered together unto the dedication of the image that Nebuchadnezzar the king had set up; and they stood before the image that Nebuchadnezzar had set up. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Dan.3.4" data-parsed="Dan_3_4_0_0" data-passage="Dan 3.4" id="Dan.3.4"/><sup>4</sup>Then the herald cried aloud, To you it is commanded, O peoples, nations, and languages, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Dan.3.5" data-parsed="Dan_3_5_0_0" data-passage="Dan 3.5" id="Dan.3.5"/><sup>5</sup>that at what time ye hear the sound of the cornet, flute, harp, sackbut, psaltery, dulcimer, and all kinds of music, ye fall down and worship the golden image that Nebuchadnezzar the king hath set up; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Dan.3.6" data-parsed="Dan_3_6_0_0" data-passage="Dan 3.6" id="Dan.3.6"/><sup>6</sup>and whoso falleth not down and worshippeth shall the same hour be cast into the midst of a burning fiery furnace.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Dan.3.7" data-parsed="Dan_3_7_0_0" data-passage="Dan 3.7" id="Dan.3.7"/><sup>7</sup>Therefore at that time, when all the peoples heard the sound of the cornet, flute, harp, sackbut, psaltery, and all kinds of music, all the peoples, the nations, and the languages, fell down and worshipped the golden image that Nebuchadnezzar the king had set up. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Dan.3.8" data-parsed="Dan_3_8_0_0" data-passage="Dan 3.8" id="Dan.3.8"/><sup>8</sup>Wherefore at that time certain Chaldeans came near, and brought accusation against the Jews.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Dan.3.9" data-parsed="Dan_3_9_0_0" data-passage="Dan 3.9" id="Dan.3.9"/><sup>9</sup>They answered and said to Nebuchadnezzar the king, O king, live for ever. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Dan.3.10" data-parsed="Dan_3_10_0_0" data-passage="Dan 3.10" id="Dan.3.10"/><sup>10</sup>Thou, O king, hast made a decree, that every man that shall hear the sound of the cornet, flute, harp, sackbut, psaltery, and dulcimer, and all kinds of music, shall fall down and worship the golden image; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Dan.3.11" data-parsed="Dan_3_11_0_0" data-passage="Dan 3.11" id="Dan.3.11"/><sup>11</sup>and whoso falleth not down and worshippeth, shall be cast into the midst of a burning fiery furnace. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Dan.3.12" data-parsed="Dan_3_12_0_0" data-passage="Dan 3.12" id="Dan.3.12"/><sup>12</sup>There are certain Jews whom thou hast appointed over the affairs of the province of Babylon: Shadrach, Meshach, and Abed-nego; these men, O king, have not regarded thee: they serve not thy gods, nor worship the golden image which thou hast set up. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Dan.3.13" data-parsed="Dan_3_13_0_0" data-passage="Dan 3.13" id="Dan.3.13"/><sup>13</sup>Then Nebuchadnezzar in <i>his</i> rage and fury commanded to bring Shadrach,
Meshach, and Abed-nego. Then they brought these men before the king.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Dan.3.14" data-parsed="Dan_3_14_0_0" data-passage="Dan 3.14" id="Dan.3.14"/><sup>14</sup>Nebuchadnezzar answered and said unto them, Is it of purpose, O Shadrach, Meshach, and Abed-nego, that ye serve not my god, nor worship the golden image which I have set up? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Dan.3.15" data-parsed="Dan_3_15_0_0" data-passage="Dan 3.15" id="Dan.3.15"/><sup>15</sup>Now if ye be ready that at what time ye hear the sound of the cornet, flute, harp, sackbut, psaltery, and dulcimer, and all kinds of music, ye fall down and worship the image which I have made, <i>well</i>: but if ye worship not, ye shall be cast the same hour into the midst of a burning fiery furnace; and who is that god that shall deliver you out of my hands? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Dan.3.16" data-parsed="Dan_3_16_0_0" data-passage="Dan 3.16" id="Dan.3.16"/><sup>16</sup>Shadrach, Meshach, and Abed-nego answered and said to the king, O Nebuchadnezzar, we have no need to answer thee in this matter. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Dan.3.17" data-parsed="Dan_3_17_0_0" data-passage="Dan 3.17" id="Dan.3.17"/><sup>17</sup>If it be <i>so</i>, our God whom we serve is able to deliver us from the burning fiery furnace; and he will deliver us out of thy hand, O king. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Dan.3.18" data-parsed="Dan_3_18_0_0" data-passage="Dan 3.18" id="Dan.3.18"/><sup>18</sup>But if not, be it known unto thee, O king, that we will not serve thy gods, nor worship the golden image which thou hast set up.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Dan.3.19" data-parsed="Dan_3_19_0_0" data-passage="Dan 3.19" id="Dan.3.19"/><sup>19</sup>Then was Nebuchadnezzar full of fury, and the form of his visage was changed against Shadrach, Meshach, and Abed-nego: <i>therefore</i> he spake,
and commanded that they should heat the furnace seven times more than it was wont to be heated. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Dan.3.20" data-parsed="Dan_3_20_0_0" data-passage="Dan 3.20" id="Dan.3.20"/><sup>20</sup>And he commanded certain mighty men that were in his army to bind Shadrach, Meshach, and Abed-nego, <i>and</i> to cast them into the burning fiery furnace. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Dan.3.21" data-parsed="Dan_3_21_0_0" data-passage="Dan 3.21" id="Dan.3.21"/><sup>21</sup>Then these men were bound in their hosen,
their tunics, and their mantles, and their <i>other</i> garments, and were cast into the midst of the burning fiery furnace. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Dan.3.22" data-parsed="Dan_3_22_0_0" data-passage="Dan 3.22" id="Dan.3.22"/><sup>22</sup>Therefore because the king's commandment was urgent, and the furnace exceeding hot, the flame of the fire slew those men that took up Shadrach, Meshach, and Abed-nego.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Dan.3.23" data-parsed="Dan_3_23_0_0" data-passage="Dan 3.23" id="Dan.3.23"/><sup>23</sup>And these three men, Shadrach, Meshach, and Abed-nego, fell down bound into the midst of the burning fiery furnace. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Dan.3.24" data-parsed="Dan_3_24_0_0" data-passage="Dan 3.24" id="Dan.3.24"/><sup>24</sup>Then Nebuchadnezzar the king was astonished, and rose up in haste: he spake and said unto his counsellors, Did not we cast three men bound into the midst of the fire? They answered and said unto the king, True, O king. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Dan.3.25" data-parsed="Dan_3_25_0_0" data-passage="Dan 3.25" id="Dan.3.25"/><sup>25</sup>He answered and said,
Lo, I see four men loose, walking in the midst of the fire, and they have no hurt; and the aspect of the fourth is like a son of the gods. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Dan.3.26" data-parsed="Dan_3_26_0_0" data-passage="Dan 3.26" id="Dan.3.26"/><sup>26</sup>Then Nebuchadnezzar came near to the mouth of the burning fiery furnace: he spake and said, Shadrach, Meshach, and Abed-nego, ye servants of the Most High God,
come forth, and come hither. Then Shadrach, Meshach, and Abed-nego came forth out of the midst of the fire. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Dan.3.27" data-parsed="Dan_3_27_0_0" data-passage="Dan 3.27" id="Dan.3.27"/><sup>27</sup>And the satraps, the deputies, and the governors, and the king's counsellors, being gathered together, saw these men, that the fire had no power upon their bodies, nor was the hair of their head singed, neither were their hosen changed, nor had the smell of fire passed on them. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Dan.3.28" data-parsed="Dan_3_28_0_0" data-passage="Dan 3.28" id="Dan.3.28"/><sup>28</sup>Nebuchadnezzar spake and said, Blessed be the God of Shadrach, Meshach, and Abed-nego, who hath sent his angel, and delivered his servants that trusted in him, and have changed the king's word, and have yielded their bodies, that they might not serve nor worship any god, except their own God. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Dan.3.29" data-parsed="Dan_3_29_0_0" data-passage="Dan 3.29" id="Dan.3.29"/><sup>29</sup>Therefore I make a decree, that every people, nation,
and language, which speak anything amiss against the God of Shadrach,
Meshach, and Abed-nego, shall be cut in pieces, and their houses shall be made a dunghill; because there is no other god that is able to deliver after this sort. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Dan.3.30" data-parsed="Dan_3_30_0_0" data-passage="Dan 3.30" id="Dan.3.30"/><sup>30</sup>Then the king promoted Shadrach, Meshach, and Abed-nego in the province of Babylon.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>