<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Daniel 4</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Daniel 4</span></div><div data-next="Dan.5" data-prev="Dan.3" data-progress="72.58%" data-shorttitle="" id="Dan.4" title="Daniel 4">
<h2 id="Dan.4-p0.1">4</h2>
<p id="Dan.4-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Dan.4.1" data-parsed="Dan_4_1_0_0" data-passage="Dan 4.1" id="Dan.4.1"/><sup>1</sup>Nebuchadnezzar the king, unto all the peoples, nations, and languages,
that dwell in all the earth: Peace be multiplied unto you. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Dan.4.2" data-parsed="Dan_4_2_0_0" data-passage="Dan 4.2" id="Dan.4.2"/><sup>2</sup>It hath seemed good unto me to show the signs and wonders that the Most High God hath wrought toward me. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Dan.4.3" data-parsed="Dan_4_3_0_0" data-passage="Dan 4.3" id="Dan.4.3"/><sup>3</sup>How great are his signs! and how mighty are his wonders! his kingdom is an everlasting kingdom, and his dominion is from generation to generation. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Dan.4.4" data-parsed="Dan_4_4_0_0" data-passage="Dan 4.4" id="Dan.4.4"/><sup>4</sup>I, Nebuchadnezzar, was at rest in my house,
and flourishing in my palace. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Dan.4.5" data-parsed="Dan_4_5_0_0" data-passage="Dan 4.5" id="Dan.4.5"/><sup>5</sup>I saw a dream which made me afraid; and the thoughts upon my bed and the visions of my head troubled me.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Dan.4.6" data-parsed="Dan_4_6_0_0" data-passage="Dan 4.6" id="Dan.4.6"/><sup>6</sup>Therefore made I a decree to bring in all the wise men of Babylon before me, that they might make known unto me the interpretation of the dream.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Dan.4.7" data-parsed="Dan_4_7_0_0" data-passage="Dan 4.7" id="Dan.4.7"/><sup>7</sup>Then came in the magicians, the enchanters, the Chaldeans, and the soothsayers; and I told the dream before them; but they did not make known unto me the interpretation thereof. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Dan.4.8" data-parsed="Dan_4_8_0_0" data-passage="Dan 4.8" id="Dan.4.8"/><sup>8</sup>But at the last Daniel came in before me, whose name was Belteshazzar, according to the name of my god, and in whom is the spirit of the holy gods: and I told the dream before him,
<i>saying</i>, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Dan.4.9" data-parsed="Dan_4_9_0_0" data-passage="Dan 4.9" id="Dan.4.9"/><sup>9</sup>O Belteshazzar, master of the magicians, because I know that the spirit of the holy gods is in thee, and no secret troubleth thee,
tell me the visions of my dream that I have seen, and the interpretation thereof. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Dan.4.10" data-parsed="Dan_4_10_0_0" data-passage="Dan 4.10" id="Dan.4.10"/><sup>10</sup>Thus were the visions of my head upon my bed: I saw, and,
behold, a tree in the midst of the earth; and the height thereof was great.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Dan.4.11" data-parsed="Dan_4_11_0_0" data-passage="Dan 4.11" id="Dan.4.11"/><sup>11</sup>The tree grew, and was strong, and the height thereof reached unto heaven, and the sight thereof to the end of all the earth. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Dan.4.12" data-parsed="Dan_4_12_0_0" data-passage="Dan 4.12" id="Dan.4.12"/><sup>12</sup>The leaves thereof were fair, and the fruit thereof much, and in it was food for all:
the beasts of the field had shadow under it, and the birds of the heavens dwelt in the branches thereof, and all flesh was fed from it. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Dan.4.13" data-parsed="Dan_4_13_0_0" data-passage="Dan 4.13" id="Dan.4.13"/><sup>13</sup>I saw in the visions of my head upon my bed, and, behold, a watcher and a holy one came down from heaven. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Dan.4.14" data-parsed="Dan_4_14_0_0" data-passage="Dan 4.14" id="Dan.4.14"/><sup>14</sup>He cried aloud, and said thus, Hew down the tree, and cut off its branches, shake off its leaves, and scatter its fruit:
let the beasts get away from under it, and the fowls from its branches.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Dan.4.15" data-parsed="Dan_4_15_0_0" data-passage="Dan 4.15" id="Dan.4.15"/><sup>15</sup>Nevertheless leave the stump of its roots in the earth, even with a band of iron and brass, in the tender grass of the field; and let it be wet with the dew of heaven: and let his portion be with the beasts in the grass of the earth: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Dan.4.16" data-parsed="Dan_4_16_0_0" data-passage="Dan 4.16" id="Dan.4.16"/><sup>16</sup>let his heart be changed from man's, and let a beast's heart be given unto him; and let seven times pass over him. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Dan.4.17" data-parsed="Dan_4_17_0_0" data-passage="Dan 4.17" id="Dan.4.17"/><sup>17</sup>The sentence is by the decree of the watchers, and the demand by the word of the holy ones; to the intent that the living may know that the Most High ruleth in the kingdom of men, and giveth it to whomsoever he will, and setteth up over it the lowest of men. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Dan.4.18" data-parsed="Dan_4_18_0_0" data-passage="Dan 4.18" id="Dan.4.18"/><sup>18</sup>This dream I, king Nebuchadnezzar, have seen; and thou, O Belteshazzar, declare the interpretation, forasmuch as all the wise men of my kingdom are not able to make known unto me the interpretation; but thou art able; for the spirit of the holy gods is in thee. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Dan.4.19" data-parsed="Dan_4_19_0_0" data-passage="Dan 4.19" id="Dan.4.19"/><sup>19</sup>Then Daniel, whose name was Belteshazzar, was stricken dumb for a while, and his thoughts troubled him. The king answered and said,
Belteshazzar, let not the dream, or the interpretation, trouble thee.
Belteshazzar answered and said, My lord, the dream be to them that hate thee,
and the interpretation thereof to thine adversaries. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Dan.4.20" data-parsed="Dan_4_20_0_0" data-passage="Dan 4.20" id="Dan.4.20"/><sup>20</sup>The tree that thou sawest, which grew, and was strong, whose height reached unto heaven, and the sight thereof to all the earth; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Dan.4.21" data-parsed="Dan_4_21_0_0" data-passage="Dan 4.21" id="Dan.4.21"/><sup>21</sup>whose leaves were fair, and the fruit thereof much, and in it was food for all; under which the beasts of the field dwelt, and upon whose branches the birds of the heavens had their habitation:

<span data-osisref="Bible:Dan.4.22" data-parsed="Dan_4_22_0_0" data-passage="Dan 4.22" id="Dan.4.22"/><sup>22</sup>it is thou, O king, that art grown and become strong; for thy greatness is grown, and reacheth unto heaven, and thy dominion to the end of the earth.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Dan.4.23" data-parsed="Dan_4_23_0_0" data-passage="Dan 4.23" id="Dan.4.23"/><sup>23</sup>And whereas the king saw a watcher and a holy one coming down from heaven, and saying, Hew down the tree, and destroy it; nevertheless leave the stump of the roots thereof in the earth, even with a band of iron and brass,
in the tender grass of the field, and let it be wet with the dew of heaven:
and let his portion be with the beasts of the field, till seven times pass over him; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Dan.4.24" data-parsed="Dan_4_24_0_0" data-passage="Dan 4.24" id="Dan.4.24"/><sup>24</sup>this is the interpretation, O king, and it is the decree of the Most High, which is come upon my lord the king: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Dan.4.25" data-parsed="Dan_4_25_0_0" data-passage="Dan 4.25" id="Dan.4.25"/><sup>25</sup>that thou shalt be driven from men, and thy dwelling shall be with the beasts of the field, and thou shalt be made to eat grass as oxen, and shalt be wet with the dew of heaven, and seven times shall pass over thee; till thou know that the Most High ruleth in the kingdom of men, and giveth it to whomsoever he will.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Dan.4.26" data-parsed="Dan_4_26_0_0" data-passage="Dan 4.26" id="Dan.4.26"/><sup>26</sup>And whereas they commanded to leave the stump of the roots of the tree;
thy kingdom shall be sure unto thee, after that thou shalt have known that the heavens do rule. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Dan.4.27" data-parsed="Dan_4_27_0_0" data-passage="Dan 4.27" id="Dan.4.27"/><sup>27</sup>Wherefore, O king, let my counsel be acceptable unto thee, and break off thy sins by righteousness, and thine iniquities by showing mercy to the poor; if there may be a lengthening of thy tranquillity.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Dan.4.28" data-parsed="Dan_4_28_0_0" data-passage="Dan 4.28" id="Dan.4.28"/><sup>28</sup>All this came upon the king Nebuchadnezzar. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Dan.4.29" data-parsed="Dan_4_29_0_0" data-passage="Dan 4.29" id="Dan.4.29"/><sup>29</sup>At the end of twelve months he was walking in the royal palace of Babylon. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Dan.4.30" data-parsed="Dan_4_30_0_0" data-passage="Dan 4.30" id="Dan.4.30"/><sup>30</sup>The king spake and said, Is not this great Babylon, which I have built for the royal dwelling-place, by the might of my power and for the glory of my majesty?

<span data-osisref="Bible:Dan.4.31" data-parsed="Dan_4_31_0_0" data-passage="Dan 4.31" id="Dan.4.31"/><sup>31</sup>While the word was in the king's mouth, there fell a voice from heaven,
<i>saying</i>, O king Nebuchadnezzar, to thee it is spoken: The kingdom is departed from thee: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Dan.4.32" data-parsed="Dan_4_32_0_0" data-passage="Dan 4.32" id="Dan.4.32"/><sup>32</sup>and thou shalt be driven from men; and they dwelling shall be with the beasts of the field; thou shalt be made to eat grass as oxen; and seven times shall pass over thee; until thou know that the Most High ruleth in the kingdom of men, and giveth it to whomsoever he will.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Dan.4.33" data-parsed="Dan_4_33_0_0" data-passage="Dan 4.33" id="Dan.4.33"/><sup>33</sup>The same hour was the thing fulfilled upon Nebuchadnezzar: and he was driven from men, and did eat grass as oxen, and his body was wet with the dew of heaven, till his hair was grown like eagles' <i>feathers</i>, and his nails like birds' <i>claws</i>. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Dan.4.34" data-parsed="Dan_4_34_0_0" data-passage="Dan 4.34" id="Dan.4.34"/><sup>34</sup>And at the end of the days I,
Nebuchadnezzar, lifted up mine eyes unto heaven, and mine understanding returned unto me, and I blessed the Most High, and I praised and honored him that liveth for ever; for his dominion is an everlasting dominion, and his kingdom from generation to generation. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Dan.4.35" data-parsed="Dan_4_35_0_0" data-passage="Dan 4.35" id="Dan.4.35"/><sup>35</sup>And all the inhabitants of the earth are reputed as nothing; and he doeth according to his will in the army of heaven, and among the inhabitants of the earth; and none can stay his hand, or say unto him, What doest thou? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Dan.4.36" data-parsed="Dan_4_36_0_0" data-passage="Dan 4.36" id="Dan.4.36"/><sup>36</sup>At the same time mine understanding returned unto me; and for the glory of my kingdom, my majesty and brightness returned unto me; and my counsellors and my lords sought unto me; and I was established in my kingdom, and excellent greatness was added unto me. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Dan.4.37" data-parsed="Dan_4_37_0_0" data-passage="Dan 4.37" id="Dan.4.37"/><sup>37</sup>Now I, Nebuchadnezzar, praise and extol and honor the King of heaven; for all his works are truth, and his ways justice; and those that walk in pride he is able to abase.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>