<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Daniel 7</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Daniel 7</span></div><div data-next="Dan.8" data-prev="Dan.6" data-progress="72.99%" data-shorttitle="" id="Dan.7" title="Daniel 7">
<h2 id="Dan.7-p0.1">7</h2>
<p id="Dan.7-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Dan.7.1" data-parsed="Dan_7_1_0_0" data-passage="Dan 7.1" id="Dan.7.1"/><sup>1</sup>In the first year of Belshazzar king of Babylon Daniel had a dream and visions of his head upon his bed: then he wrote the dream and told the sum of the matters. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Dan.7.2" data-parsed="Dan_7_2_0_0" data-passage="Dan 7.2" id="Dan.7.2"/><sup>2</sup>Daniel spake and said, I saw in my vision by night,
and, behold, the four winds of heaven brake forth upon the great sea.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Dan.7.3" data-parsed="Dan_7_3_0_0" data-passage="Dan 7.3" id="Dan.7.3"/><sup>3</sup>And four great beasts came up from the sea, diverse one from another.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Dan.7.4" data-parsed="Dan_7_4_0_0" data-passage="Dan 7.4" id="Dan.7.4"/><sup>4</sup>The first was like a lion, and had eagle's wings: I beheld till the wings thereof were plucked, and it was lifted up from the earth, and made to stand upon two feet as a man; and a man's heart was given to it. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Dan.7.5" data-parsed="Dan_7_5_0_0" data-passage="Dan 7.5" id="Dan.7.5"/><sup>5</sup>And,
behold, another beast, a second, like to a bear; and it was raised up on one side, and three ribs were in its mouth between its teeth: and they said thus unto it, Arise, devour much flesh. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Dan.7.6" data-parsed="Dan_7_6_0_0" data-passage="Dan 7.6" id="Dan.7.6"/><sup>6</sup>After this I beheld, and, lo,
another, like a leopard, which had upon its back four wings of a bird; the beast had also four heads; and dominion was given to it. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Dan.7.7" data-parsed="Dan_7_7_0_0" data-passage="Dan 7.7" id="Dan.7.7"/><sup>7</sup>After this I saw in the night-visions, and, behold, a fourth beast, terrible and powerful,
and strong exceedingly; and it had great iron teeth; it devoured and brake in pieces, and stamped the residue with its feet: and it was diverse from all the beasts that were before it; and it had ten horns. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Dan.7.8" data-parsed="Dan_7_8_0_0" data-passage="Dan 7.8" id="Dan.7.8"/><sup>8</sup>I considered the horns, and, behold, there came up among them another horn, a little one,
before which three of the first horns were plucked up by the roots: and,
behold, in this horn were eyes like the eyes of a man, and a mouth speaking great things. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Dan.7.9" data-parsed="Dan_7_9_0_0" data-passage="Dan 7.9" id="Dan.7.9"/><sup>9</sup>I beheld till thrones were placed, and one that was ancient of days did sit: his raiment was white as snow, and the hair of his head like pure wool; his throne was fiery flames, <i>and</i> the wheels thereof burning fire. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Dan.7.10" data-parsed="Dan_7_10_0_0" data-passage="Dan 7.10" id="Dan.7.10"/><sup>10</sup>A fiery stream issued and came forth from before him: thousands of thousands ministered unto him, and ten thousand times ten thousand stood before him: the judgment was set, and the books were opened.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Dan.7.11" data-parsed="Dan_7_11_0_0" data-passage="Dan 7.11" id="Dan.7.11"/><sup>11</sup>I beheld at that time because of the voice of the great words which the horn spake; I beheld even till the beast was slain, and its body destroyed,
and it was given to be burned with fire. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Dan.7.12" data-parsed="Dan_7_12_0_0" data-passage="Dan 7.12" id="Dan.7.12"/><sup>12</sup>And as for the rest of the beasts, their dominion was taken away: yet their lives were prolonged for a season and a time. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Dan.7.13" data-parsed="Dan_7_13_0_0" data-passage="Dan 7.13" id="Dan.7.13"/><sup>13</sup>I saw in the night-visions, and, behold, there came with the clouds of heaven one like unto a son of man, and he came even to the ancient of days, and they brought him near before him. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Dan.7.14" data-parsed="Dan_7_14_0_0" data-passage="Dan 7.14" id="Dan.7.14"/><sup>14</sup>And there was given him dominion, and glory, and a kingdom, that all the peoples, nations,
and languages should serve him: his dominion is an everlasting dominion,
which shall not pass away, and his kingdom that which shall not be destroyed.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Dan.7.15" data-parsed="Dan_7_15_0_0" data-passage="Dan 7.15" id="Dan.7.15"/><sup>15</sup>As for me, Daniel, my spirit was grieved in the midst of my body, and the visions of my head troubled me. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Dan.7.16" data-parsed="Dan_7_16_0_0" data-passage="Dan 7.16" id="Dan.7.16"/><sup>16</sup>I came near unto one of them that stood by, and asked him the truth concerning all this. So he told me, and made me know the interpretation of the things. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Dan.7.17" data-parsed="Dan_7_17_0_0" data-passage="Dan 7.17" id="Dan.7.17"/><sup>17</sup>These great beasts,
which are four, are four kings, that shall arise out of the earth. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Dan.7.18" data-parsed="Dan_7_18_0_0" data-passage="Dan 7.18" id="Dan.7.18"/><sup>18</sup>But the saints of the Most High shall receive the kingdom, and possess the kingdom for ever, even for ever and ever. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Dan.7.19" data-parsed="Dan_7_19_0_0" data-passage="Dan 7.19" id="Dan.7.19"/><sup>19</sup>Then I desired to know the truth concerning the fourth beast, which was diverse from all of them,
exceeding terrible, whose teeth were of iron, and its nails of brass; which devoured, brake in pieces, and stamped the residue with its feet; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Dan.7.20" data-parsed="Dan_7_20_0_0" data-passage="Dan 7.20" id="Dan.7.20"/><sup>20</sup>and concerning the ten horns that were on its head, and the other <i>horn</i>
which came up, and before which three fell, even that horn that had eyes, and a mouth that spake great things, whose look was more stout than its fellows.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Dan.7.21" data-parsed="Dan_7_21_0_0" data-passage="Dan 7.21" id="Dan.7.21"/><sup>21</sup>I beheld, and the same horn made war with the saints, and prevailed against them; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Dan.7.22" data-parsed="Dan_7_22_0_0" data-passage="Dan 7.22" id="Dan.7.22"/><sup>22</sup>until the ancient of days came, and judgment was given to the saints of the Most High, and the time came that the saints possessed the kingdom. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Dan.7.23" data-parsed="Dan_7_23_0_0" data-passage="Dan 7.23" id="Dan.7.23"/><sup>23</sup>Thus he said, The fourth beast shall be a fourth kingdom upon earth, which shall be diverse from all the kingdoms, and shall devour the whole earth, and shall tread it down, and break it in pieces. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Dan.7.24" data-parsed="Dan_7_24_0_0" data-passage="Dan 7.24" id="Dan.7.24"/><sup>24</sup>And as for the ten horns, out of this kingdom shall ten kings arise: and another shall arise after them; and he shall be diverse from the former, and he shall put down three kings. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Dan.7.25" data-parsed="Dan_7_25_0_0" data-passage="Dan 7.25" id="Dan.7.25"/><sup>25</sup>And he shall speak words against the Most High,
and shall wear out the saints of the Most High; and he shall think to change the times and the law; and they shall be given into his hand until a time and times and half a time. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Dan.7.26" data-parsed="Dan_7_26_0_0" data-passage="Dan 7.26" id="Dan.7.26"/><sup>26</sup>But the judgment shall be set, and they shall take away his dominion, to consume and to destroy it unto the end. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Dan.7.27" data-parsed="Dan_7_27_0_0" data-passage="Dan 7.27" id="Dan.7.27"/><sup>27</sup>And the kingdom and the dominion, and the greatness of the kingdoms under the whole heaven, shall be given to the people of the saints of the Most High:
his kingdom is an everlasting kingdom, and all dominions shall serve and obey him. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Dan.7.28" data-parsed="Dan_7_28_0_0" data-passage="Dan 7.28" id="Dan.7.28"/><sup>28</sup>Here is the end of the matter. As for me, Daniel, my thoughts much troubled me, and my countenance was changed in me: but I kept the matter in my heart.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>