<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Daniel 8</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Daniel 8</span></div><div data-next="Dan.9" data-prev="Dan.7" data-progress="73.10%" data-shorttitle="" id="Dan.8" title="Daniel 8">
<h2 id="Dan.8-p0.1">8</h2>
<p id="Dan.8-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Dan.8.1" data-parsed="Dan_8_1_0_0" data-passage="Dan 8.1" id="Dan.8.1"/><sup>1</sup>In the third year of the reign of king Belshazzar a vision appeared unto me, even unto me, Daniel, after that which appeared unto me at the first. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Dan.8.2" data-parsed="Dan_8_2_0_0" data-passage="Dan 8.2" id="Dan.8.2"/><sup>2</sup>And I saw in the vision; now it was so, that when I saw, I was in Shushan the palace, which is in the province of Elam; and I saw in the vision, and I was by the river Ulai. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Dan.8.3" data-parsed="Dan_8_3_0_0" data-passage="Dan 8.3" id="Dan.8.3"/><sup>3</sup>Then I lifted up mine eyes, and saw, and, behold, there stood before the river a ram which had two horns: and the two horns were high; but one was higher than the other, and the higher came up last. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Dan.8.4" data-parsed="Dan_8_4_0_0" data-passage="Dan 8.4" id="Dan.8.4"/><sup>4</sup>I saw the ram pushing westward, and northward, and southward; and no beasts could stand before him, neither was there any that could deliver out of his hand; but he did according to his will, and magnified himself. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Dan.8.5" data-parsed="Dan_8_5_0_0" data-passage="Dan 8.5" id="Dan.8.5"/><sup>5</sup>And as I was considering, behold, a he-goat came from the west over the face of the whole earth, and touched not the ground: and the goat had a notable horn between his eyes. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Dan.8.6" data-parsed="Dan_8_6_0_0" data-passage="Dan 8.6" id="Dan.8.6"/><sup>6</sup>And he came to the ram that had the two horns, which I saw standing before the river, and ran upon him in the fury of his power. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Dan.8.7" data-parsed="Dan_8_7_0_0" data-passage="Dan 8.7" id="Dan.8.7"/><sup>7</sup>And I saw him come close unto the ram, and he was moved with anger against him, and smote the ram, and brake his two horns; and there was no power in the ram to stand before him; but he cast him down to the ground, and trampled upon him; and there was none that could deliver the ram out of his hand. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Dan.8.8" data-parsed="Dan_8_8_0_0" data-passage="Dan 8.8" id="Dan.8.8"/><sup>8</sup>And the he-goat magnified himself exceedingly: and when he was strong, the great horn was broken; and instead of it there came up four notable <i>horns</i> toward the four winds of heaven. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Dan.8.9" data-parsed="Dan_8_9_0_0" data-passage="Dan 8.9" id="Dan.8.9"/><sup>9</sup>And out of one of them came forth a little horn, which waxed exceeding great, toward the south, and toward the east, and toward the glorious <i>land</i>. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Dan.8.10" data-parsed="Dan_8_10_0_0" data-passage="Dan 8.10" id="Dan.8.10"/><sup>10</sup>And it waxed great, even to the host of heaven;
and some of the host and of the stars it cast down to the ground, and trampled upon them. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Dan.8.11" data-parsed="Dan_8_11_0_0" data-passage="Dan 8.11" id="Dan.8.11"/><sup>11</sup>Yea, it magnified itself, even to the prince of the host; and it took away from him the continual <i>burnt-offering</i>, and the place of his sanctuary was cast down. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Dan.8.12" data-parsed="Dan_8_12_0_0" data-passage="Dan 8.12" id="Dan.8.12"/><sup>12</sup>And the host was given over <i>to it</i> together with the continual <i>burnt-offering</i> through transgression; and it cast down truth to the ground, and it did <i>its pleasure</i> and prospered. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Dan.8.13" data-parsed="Dan_8_13_0_0" data-passage="Dan 8.13" id="Dan.8.13"/><sup>13</sup>Then I heard a holy one speaking; and another holy one said unto that certain one who spake, How long shall be the vision <i>concerning</i> the continual <i>burnt-offering</i>, and the transgression that maketh desolate, to give both the sanctuary and the host to be trodden under foot? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Dan.8.14" data-parsed="Dan_8_14_0_0" data-passage="Dan 8.14" id="Dan.8.14"/><sup>14</sup>And he said unto me, Unto two thousand and three hundred evenings <i>and</i> mornings; then shall the sanctuary be cleansed. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Dan.8.15" data-parsed="Dan_8_15_0_0" data-passage="Dan 8.15" id="Dan.8.15"/><sup>15</sup>And it came to pass, when I, even I Daniel, had seen the vision, that I sought to understand it; and, behold, there stood before me as the appearance of a man. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Dan.8.16" data-parsed="Dan_8_16_0_0" data-passage="Dan 8.16" id="Dan.8.16"/><sup>16</sup>And I heard a man's voice between <i>the banks of</i> the Ulai, which called, and said, Gabriel, make this man to understand the vision. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Dan.8.17" data-parsed="Dan_8_17_0_0" data-passage="Dan 8.17" id="Dan.8.17"/><sup>17</sup>So he came near where I stood; and when he came,
I was affrighted, and fell upon my face: but he said unto me, Understand, O son of man; for the vision belongeth to the time of the end. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Dan.8.18" data-parsed="Dan_8_18_0_0" data-passage="Dan 8.18" id="Dan.8.18"/><sup>18</sup>Now as he was speaking with me, I fell into a deep sleep with my face toward the ground; but he touched me, and set me upright. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Dan.8.19" data-parsed="Dan_8_19_0_0" data-passage="Dan 8.19" id="Dan.8.19"/><sup>19</sup>And he said, Behold, I will make thee know what shall be in the latter time of the indignation; for it belongeth to the appointed time of the end. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Dan.8.20" data-parsed="Dan_8_20_0_0" data-passage="Dan 8.20" id="Dan.8.20"/><sup>20</sup>The ram which thou sawest, that had the two horns, they are the kings of Media and Persia.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Dan.8.21" data-parsed="Dan_8_21_0_0" data-passage="Dan 8.21" id="Dan.8.21"/><sup>21</sup>And the rough he-goat is the king of Greece: and the great horn that is between his eyes is the first king. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Dan.8.22" data-parsed="Dan_8_22_0_0" data-passage="Dan 8.22" id="Dan.8.22"/><sup>22</sup>And as for that which was broken,
in the place whereof four stood up, four kingdoms shall stand up out of the nation, but not with his power. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Dan.8.23" data-parsed="Dan_8_23_0_0" data-passage="Dan 8.23" id="Dan.8.23"/><sup>23</sup>And in the latter time of their kingdom, when the transgressors are come to the full, a king of fierce countenance, and understanding dark sentences, shall stand up. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Dan.8.24" data-parsed="Dan_8_24_0_0" data-passage="Dan 8.24" id="Dan.8.24"/><sup>24</sup>And his power shall be mighty, but not by his own power; and he shall destroy wonderfully, and shall prosper and do <i>his pleasure</i>; and he shall destroy the mighty ones and the holy people. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Dan.8.25" data-parsed="Dan_8_25_0_0" data-passage="Dan 8.25" id="Dan.8.25"/><sup>25</sup>And through his policy he shall cause craft to prosper in his hand; and he shall magnify himself in his heart, and in <i>their</i> security shall he destroy many: he shall also stand up against the prince of princes; but he shall be broken without hand.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Dan.8.26" data-parsed="Dan_8_26_0_0" data-passage="Dan 8.26" id="Dan.8.26"/><sup>26</sup>And the vision of the evenings and mornings which hath been told is true: but shut thou up the vision; for it belongeth to many days <i>to come</i>. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Dan.8.27" data-parsed="Dan_8_27_0_0" data-passage="Dan 8.27" id="Dan.8.27"/><sup>27</sup>And I, Daniel, fainted, and was sick certain days; then I rose up, and did the king's business: and I wondered at the vision, but none understood it.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>