<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Deuteronomy 25</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Deuteronomy 25</span></div><div data-next="Deut.26" data-prev="Deut.24" data-progress="19.28%" data-shorttitle="" id="Deut.25" title="Deuteronomy 25">
<h2 id="Deut.25-p0.1">25</h2>
<p id="Deut.25-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Deut.25.1" data-parsed="Deut_25_1_0_0" data-passage="Deut 25.1" id="Deut.25.1"/><sup>1</sup>If there be a controversy between men, and they come unto judgment, and <i>the judges</i> judge them; then they shall justify the righteous, and condemn the wicked; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Deut.25.2" data-parsed="Deut_25_2_0_0" data-passage="Deut 25.2" id="Deut.25.2"/><sup>2</sup>and it shall be, if the wicked man be worthy to be beaten, that the judge shall cause him to lie down, and to be beaten before his face, according to his wickedness, by number. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Deut.25.3" data-parsed="Deut_25_3_0_0" data-passage="Deut 25.3" id="Deut.25.3"/><sup>3</sup>Forty stripes he may give him, he shall not exceed; lest, if he should exceed, and beat him above these with many stripes, then thy brother should seem vile unto thee.</p>
<p id="Deut.25-p2">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Deut.25.4" data-parsed="Deut_25_4_0_0" data-passage="Deut 25.4" id="Deut.25.4"/><sup>4</sup>Thou shalt not muzzle the ox when he treadeth out <i>the grain</i>.</p>
<p id="Deut.25-p3">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Deut.25.5" data-parsed="Deut_25_5_0_0" data-passage="Deut 25.5" id="Deut.25.5"/><sup>5</sup>If brethren dwell together, and one of them die, and have no son, the wife of the dead shall not be married without unto a stranger: her husband's brother shall go in unto her, and take her to him to wife, and perform the duty of a husband's brother unto her. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Deut.25.6" data-parsed="Deut_25_6_0_0" data-passage="Deut 25.6" id="Deut.25.6"/><sup>6</sup>And it shall be, that the first-born that she beareth shall succeed in the name of his brother that is dead, that his name be not blotted out of Israel. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Deut.25.7" data-parsed="Deut_25_7_0_0" data-passage="Deut 25.7" id="Deut.25.7"/><sup>7</sup>And if the man like not to take his brother's wife, then his brother's wife shall go up to the gate unto the elders, and say, My husband's brother refuseth to raise up unto his brother a name in Israel; he will not perform the duty of a husband's brother unto me. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Deut.25.8" data-parsed="Deut_25_8_0_0" data-passage="Deut 25.8" id="Deut.25.8"/><sup>8</sup>Then the elders of his city shall call him, and speak unto him: and if he stand, and say, I like not to take her; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Deut.25.9" data-parsed="Deut_25_9_0_0" data-passage="Deut 25.9" id="Deut.25.9"/><sup>9</sup>then shall his brother's wife come unto him in the presence of the elders, and loose his shoe from off his foot, and spit in his face; and she shall answer and say,
So shall it be done unto the man that doth not build up his brother's house.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Deut.25.10" data-parsed="Deut_25_10_0_0" data-passage="Deut 25.10" id="Deut.25.10"/><sup>10</sup>And his name shall be called in Israel, The house of him that hath his shoe loosed.</p>
<p id="Deut.25-p4">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Deut.25.11" data-parsed="Deut_25_11_0_0" data-passage="Deut 25.11" id="Deut.25.11"/><sup>11</sup>When men strive together one with another, and the wife of the one draweth near to deliver her husband out of the hand of him that smiteth him,
and putteth forth her hand, and taketh him by the secrets; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Deut.25.12" data-parsed="Deut_25_12_0_0" data-passage="Deut 25.12" id="Deut.25.12"/><sup>12</sup>then thou shalt cut off her hand, thine eye shall have no pity.</p>
<p id="Deut.25-p5">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Deut.25.13" data-parsed="Deut_25_13_0_0" data-passage="Deut 25.13" id="Deut.25.13"/><sup>13</sup>Thou shalt not have in thy bag diverse weights, a great and a small.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Deut.25.14" data-parsed="Deut_25_14_0_0" data-passage="Deut 25.14" id="Deut.25.14"/><sup>14</sup>Thou shalt not have in thy house diverse measures, a great and a small.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Deut.25.15" data-parsed="Deut_25_15_0_0" data-passage="Deut 25.15" id="Deut.25.15"/><sup>15</sup>A perfect and just weight shalt thou have; a perfect and just measure shalt thou have: that thy days may be long in the land which Jehovah thy God giveth thee. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Deut.25.16" data-parsed="Deut_25_16_0_0" data-passage="Deut 25.16" id="Deut.25.16"/><sup>16</sup>For all that do such things, <i>even</i> all that do unrighteously, are an abomination unto Jehovah thy God.</p>
<p id="Deut.25-p6">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Deut.25.17" data-parsed="Deut_25_17_0_0" data-passage="Deut 25.17" id="Deut.25.17"/><sup>17</sup>Remember what Amalek did unto thee by the way as ye came forth out of Egypt; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Deut.25.18" data-parsed="Deut_25_18_0_0" data-passage="Deut 25.18" id="Deut.25.18"/><sup>18</sup>how he met thee by the way, and smote the hindmost of thee, all that were feeble behind thee, when thou wast faint and weary; and he feared not God. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Deut.25.19" data-parsed="Deut_25_19_0_0" data-passage="Deut 25.19" id="Deut.25.19"/><sup>19</sup>Therefore it shall be, when Jehovah thy God hath given thee rest from all thine enemies round about, in the land which Jehovah thy God giveth thee for an inheritance to possess it, that thou shalt blot out the remembrance of Amalek from under heaven; thou shalt not forget.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>