<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Deuteronomy 24</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Deuteronomy 24</span></div><div data-next="Deut.25" data-prev="Deut.23" data-progress="19.20%" data-shorttitle="" id="Deut.24" title="Deuteronomy 24">
<h2 id="Deut.24-p0.1">24</h2>
<p id="Deut.24-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Deut.24.1" data-parsed="Deut_24_1_0_0" data-passage="Deut 24.1" id="Deut.24.1"/><sup>1</sup>When a man taketh a wife, and marrieth her, then it shall be, if she find no favor in his eyes, because he hath found some unseemly thing in her, that he shall write her a bill of divorcement, and give it in her hand,
and send her out of his house. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Deut.24.2" data-parsed="Deut_24_2_0_0" data-passage="Deut 24.2" id="Deut.24.2"/><sup>2</sup>And when she is departed out of his house, she may go and be another man's <i>wife</i>. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Deut.24.3" data-parsed="Deut_24_3_0_0" data-passage="Deut 24.3" id="Deut.24.3"/><sup>3</sup>And if the latter husband hate her, and write her a bill of divorcement, and give it in her hand, and send her out of his house; or if the latter husband die, who took her to be his wife; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Deut.24.4" data-parsed="Deut_24_4_0_0" data-passage="Deut 24.4" id="Deut.24.4"/><sup>4</sup>her former husband, who sent her away, may not take her again to be his wife, after that she is defiled; for that is abomination before Jehovah: and thou shalt not cause the land to sin, which Jehovah thy God giveth thee for an inheritance.</p>
<p id="Deut.24-p2">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Deut.24.5" data-parsed="Deut_24_5_0_0" data-passage="Deut 24.5" id="Deut.24.5"/><sup>5</sup>When a man taketh a new wife, he shall not go out in the host, neither shall he be charged with any business: he shall be free at home one year, and shall cheer his wife whom he hath taken.</p>
<p id="Deut.24-p3">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Deut.24.6" data-parsed="Deut_24_6_0_0" data-passage="Deut 24.6" id="Deut.24.6"/><sup>6</sup>No man shall take the mill or the upper millstone to pledge; for he taketh <i>a man's</i> life to pledge.</p>
<p id="Deut.24-p4">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Deut.24.7" data-parsed="Deut_24_7_0_0" data-passage="Deut 24.7" id="Deut.24.7"/><sup>7</sup>If a man be found stealing any of his brethren of the children of Israel, and he deal with him as a slave, or sell him; then that thief shall die: so shalt thou put away the evil from the midst of thee.</p>
<p id="Deut.24-p5">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Deut.24.8" data-parsed="Deut_24_8_0_0" data-passage="Deut 24.8" id="Deut.24.8"/><sup>8</sup>Take heed in the plague of leprosy, that thou observe diligently, and do according to all that the priests the Levites shall teach you: as I commanded them, so ye shall observe to do. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Deut.24.9" data-parsed="Deut_24_9_0_0" data-passage="Deut 24.9" id="Deut.24.9"/><sup>9</sup>Remember what Jehovah thy God did unto Miriam, by the way as ye came forth out of Egypt.</p>
<p id="Deut.24-p6">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Deut.24.10" data-parsed="Deut_24_10_0_0" data-passage="Deut 24.10" id="Deut.24.10"/><sup>10</sup>When thou dost lend thy neighbor any manner of loan, thou shalt not go into his house to fetch his pledge. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Deut.24.11" data-parsed="Deut_24_11_0_0" data-passage="Deut 24.11" id="Deut.24.11"/><sup>11</sup>Thou shalt stand without, and the man to whom thou dost lend shall bring forth the pledge without unto thee.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Deut.24.12" data-parsed="Deut_24_12_0_0" data-passage="Deut 24.12" id="Deut.24.12"/><sup>12</sup>And if he be a poor man, thou shalt not sleep with his pledge;

<span data-osisref="Bible:Deut.24.13" data-parsed="Deut_24_13_0_0" data-passage="Deut 24.13" id="Deut.24.13"/><sup>13</sup>thou shalt surely restore to him the pledge when the sun goeth down,
that he may sleep in his garment, and bless thee: and it shall be righteousness unto thee before Jehovah thy God.</p>
<p id="Deut.24-p7">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Deut.24.14" data-parsed="Deut_24_14_0_0" data-passage="Deut 24.14" id="Deut.24.14"/><sup>14</sup>Thou shalt not oppress a hired servant that is poor and needy, whether he be of thy brethren, or of thy sojourners that are in thy land within thy gates: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Deut.24.15" data-parsed="Deut_24_15_0_0" data-passage="Deut 24.15" id="Deut.24.15"/><sup>15</sup>in his day thou shalt give him his hire, neither shall the sun go down upon it; for he is poor, and setteth his heart upon it: lest he cry against thee unto Jehovah, and it be sin unto thee.</p>
<p id="Deut.24-p8">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Deut.24.16" data-parsed="Deut_24_16_0_0" data-passage="Deut 24.16" id="Deut.24.16"/><sup>16</sup>The fathers shall not be put to death for the children, neither shall the children be put to death for the fathers: every man shall be put to death for his own sin.</p>
<p id="Deut.24-p9">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Deut.24.17" data-parsed="Deut_24_17_0_0" data-passage="Deut 24.17" id="Deut.24.17"/><sup>17</sup>Thou shalt not wrest the justice <i>due</i> to the sojourner,
<i>or</i> to the fatherless, nor take the widow's raiment to pledge;

<span data-osisref="Bible:Deut.24.18" data-parsed="Deut_24_18_0_0" data-passage="Deut 24.18" id="Deut.24.18"/><sup>18</sup>but thou shalt remember that thou wast a bondman in Egypt, and Jehovah thy God redeemed thee thence: therefore I command thee to do this thing.</p>
<p id="Deut.24-p10">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Deut.24.19" data-parsed="Deut_24_19_0_0" data-passage="Deut 24.19" id="Deut.24.19"/><sup>19</sup>When thou reapest thy harvest in thy field, and hast forgot a sheaf in the field, thou shalt not go again to fetch it: it shall be for the sojourner, for the fatherless, and for the widow; that Jehovah thy God may bless thee in all the work of thy hands. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Deut.24.20" data-parsed="Deut_24_20_0_0" data-passage="Deut 24.20" id="Deut.24.20"/><sup>20</sup>When thou beatest thine olive-tree, thou shalt not go over the boughs again: it shall be for the sojourner, for the fatherless, and for the widow. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Deut.24.21" data-parsed="Deut_24_21_0_0" data-passage="Deut 24.21" id="Deut.24.21"/><sup>21</sup>When thou gatherest <i>the grapes of</i> thy vineyard, thou shalt not glean it after thee: it shall be for the sojourner, for the fatherless, and for the widow. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Deut.24.22" data-parsed="Deut_24_22_0_0" data-passage="Deut 24.22" id="Deut.24.22"/><sup>22</sup>And thou shalt remember that thou wast a bondman in the land of Egypt: therefore I command thee to do this thing.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>