<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Deuteronomy 26</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Deuteronomy 26</span></div><div data-next="Deut.27" data-prev="Deut.25" data-progress="19.35%" data-shorttitle="" id="Deut.26" title="Deuteronomy 26">
<h2 id="Deut.26-p0.1">26</h2>
<p id="Deut.26-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Deut.26.1" data-parsed="Deut_26_1_0_0" data-passage="Deut 26.1" id="Deut.26.1"/><sup>1</sup>And it shall be, when thou art come in unto the land which Jehovah thy God giveth thee for an inheritance, and possessest it, and dwellest therein, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Deut.26.2" data-parsed="Deut_26_2_0_0" data-passage="Deut 26.2" id="Deut.26.2"/><sup>2</sup>that thou shalt take of the first of all the fruit of the ground, which thou shalt bring in from thy land that Jehovah thy God giveth thee; and thou shalt put it in a basket, and shalt go unto the place which Jehovah thy God shall choose, to cause his name to dwell there. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Deut.26.3" data-parsed="Deut_26_3_0_0" data-passage="Deut 26.3" id="Deut.26.3"/><sup>3</sup>And thou shalt come unto the priest that shall be in those days, and say unto him, I profess this day unto Jehovah thy God, that I am come unto the land which Jehovah sware unto our fathers to give us. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Deut.26.4" data-parsed="Deut_26_4_0_0" data-passage="Deut 26.4" id="Deut.26.4"/><sup>4</sup>And the priest shall take the basket out of thy hand, and set it down before the altar of Jehovah thy God.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Deut.26.5" data-parsed="Deut_26_5_0_0" data-passage="Deut 26.5" id="Deut.26.5"/><sup>5</sup>And thou shalt answer and say before Jehovah thy God, A Syrian ready to perish was my father; and he went down into Egypt, and sojourned there, few in number; and he became there a nation, great, mighty, and populous.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Deut.26.6" data-parsed="Deut_26_6_0_0" data-passage="Deut 26.6" id="Deut.26.6"/><sup>6</sup>And the Egyptians dealt ill with us, and afflicted us, and laid upon us hard bondage: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Deut.26.7" data-parsed="Deut_26_7_0_0" data-passage="Deut 26.7" id="Deut.26.7"/><sup>7</sup>and we cried unto Jehovah, the God of our fathers, and Jehovah heard our voice, and saw our affliction, and our toil, and our oppression; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Deut.26.8" data-parsed="Deut_26_8_0_0" data-passage="Deut 26.8" id="Deut.26.8"/><sup>8</sup>and Jehovah brought us forth out of Egypt with a mighty hand, and with an outstretched arm, and with great terribleness, and with signs, and with wonders; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Deut.26.9" data-parsed="Deut_26_9_0_0" data-passage="Deut 26.9" id="Deut.26.9"/><sup>9</sup>and he hath brought us into this place, and hath given us this land, a land flowing with milk and honey. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Deut.26.10" data-parsed="Deut_26_10_0_0" data-passage="Deut 26.10" id="Deut.26.10"/><sup>10</sup>And now,
behold, I have brought the first of the fruit of the ground, which thou, O Jehovah, hast given me. And thou shalt set it down before Jehovah thy God,
and worship before Jehovah thy God: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Deut.26.11" data-parsed="Deut_26_11_0_0" data-passage="Deut 26.11" id="Deut.26.11"/><sup>11</sup>and thou shalt rejoice in all the good which Jehovah thy God hath given unto thee, and unto thy house, thou,
and the Levite, and the sojourner that is in the midst of thee.</p>
<p id="Deut.26-p2">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Deut.26.12" data-parsed="Deut_26_12_0_0" data-passage="Deut 26.12" id="Deut.26.12"/><sup>12</sup>When thou hast made an end of tithing all the tithe of thine increase in the third year, which is the year of tithing, then thou shalt give it unto the Levite, to the sojourner, to the fatherless, and to the widow, that they may eat within thy gates, and be filled. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Deut.26.13" data-parsed="Deut_26_13_0_0" data-passage="Deut 26.13" id="Deut.26.13"/><sup>13</sup>And thou shalt say before Jehovah thy God, I have put away the hallowed things out of my house, and also have given them unto the Levite, and unto the sojourner, to the fatherless, and to the widow, according to all thy commandment which thou hast commanded me: I have not transgressed any of thy commandments, neither have I forgotten them: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Deut.26.14" data-parsed="Deut_26_14_0_0" data-passage="Deut 26.14" id="Deut.26.14"/><sup>14</sup>I have not eaten thereof in my mourning, neither have I put away thereof, being unclean, nor given thereof for the dead: I have hearkened to the voice of Jehovah my God; I have done according to all that thou hast commanded me. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Deut.26.15" data-parsed="Deut_26_15_0_0" data-passage="Deut 26.15" id="Deut.26.15"/><sup>15</sup>Look down from thy holy habitation, from heaven, and bless thy people Israel, and the ground which thou hast given us,
as thou swarest unto our fathers, a land flowing with milk and honey.</p>
<p id="Deut.26-p3">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Deut.26.16" data-parsed="Deut_26_16_0_0" data-passage="Deut 26.16" id="Deut.26.16"/><sup>16</sup>This day Jehovah thy God commandeth thee to do these statutes and ordinances: thou shalt therefore keep and do them with all thy heart, and with all thy soul. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Deut.26.17" data-parsed="Deut_26_17_0_0" data-passage="Deut 26.17" id="Deut.26.17"/><sup>17</sup>Thou hast avouched Jehovah this day to be thy God,
and that thou wouldest walk in his ways, and keep his statutes, and his commandments, and his ordinances, and hearken unto his voice: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Deut.26.18" data-parsed="Deut_26_18_0_0" data-passage="Deut 26.18" id="Deut.26.18"/><sup>18</sup>and Jehovah hath avouched thee this day to be a people for his own possession, as he hath promised thee, and that thou shouldest keep all his commandments;

<span data-osisref="Bible:Deut.26.19" data-parsed="Deut_26_19_0_0" data-passage="Deut 26.19" id="Deut.26.19"/><sup>19</sup>and to make thee high above all nations that he hath made, in praise,
and in name, and in honor; and that thou mayest be a holy people unto Jehovah thy God, as he hath spoken.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>