<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Deuteronomy 34</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Deuteronomy 34</span></div><div data-next="Josh" data-prev="Deut.33" data-progress="20.34%" data-shorttitle="" id="Deut.34" title="Deuteronomy 34">
<h2 id="Deut.34-p0.1">34</h2>
<p id="Deut.34-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Deut.34.1" data-parsed="Deut_34_1_0_0" data-passage="Deut 34.1" id="Deut.34.1"/><sup>1</sup>And Moses went up from the plains of Moab unto mount Nebo, to the top of Pisgah, that is over against Jericho. And Jehovah showed him all the land of Gilead, unto Dan, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Deut.34.2" data-parsed="Deut_34_2_0_0" data-passage="Deut 34.2" id="Deut.34.2"/><sup>2</sup>and all Naphtali, and the land of Ephraim and Manasseh, and all the land of Judah, unto the hinder sea, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Deut.34.3" data-parsed="Deut_34_3_0_0" data-passage="Deut 34.3" id="Deut.34.3"/><sup>3</sup>and the South,
and the Plain of the valley of Jericho the city of palm-trees, unto Zoar.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Deut.34.4" data-parsed="Deut_34_4_0_0" data-passage="Deut 34.4" id="Deut.34.4"/><sup>4</sup>And Jehovah said unto him, This is the land which I sware unto Abraham,
unto Isaac, and unto Jacob, saying, I will give it unto thy seed: I have caused thee to see it with thine eyes, but thou shalt not go over thither.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Deut.34.5" data-parsed="Deut_34_5_0_0" data-passage="Deut 34.5" id="Deut.34.5"/><sup>5</sup>So Moses the servant of Jehovah died there in the land of Moab,
according to the word of Jehovah. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Deut.34.6" data-parsed="Deut_34_6_0_0" data-passage="Deut 34.6" id="Deut.34.6"/><sup>6</sup>And he buried him in the valley in the land of Moab over against Beth-peor: but no man knoweth of his sepulchre unto this day. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Deut.34.7" data-parsed="Deut_34_7_0_0" data-passage="Deut 34.7" id="Deut.34.7"/><sup>7</sup>And Moses was a hundred and twenty years old when he died: his eye was not dim, nor his natural force abated. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Deut.34.8" data-parsed="Deut_34_8_0_0" data-passage="Deut 34.8" id="Deut.34.8"/><sup>8</sup>And the children of Israel wept for Moses in the plains of Moab thirty days: so the days of weeping in the mourning for Moses were ended.</p>
<p id="Deut.34-p2">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Deut.34.9" data-parsed="Deut_34_9_0_0" data-passage="Deut 34.9" id="Deut.34.9"/><sup>9</sup>And Joshua the son of Nun was full of the spirit of wisdom; for Moses had laid his hands upon him: and the children of Israel hearkened unto him,
and did as Jehovah commanded Moses. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Deut.34.10" data-parsed="Deut_34_10_0_0" data-passage="Deut 34.10" id="Deut.34.10"/><sup>10</sup>And there hath not arisen a prophet since in Israel like unto Moses, whom Jehovah knew face to face, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Deut.34.11" data-parsed="Deut_34_11_0_0" data-passage="Deut 34.11" id="Deut.34.11"/><sup>11</sup>in all the signs and the wonders, which Jehovah sent him to do in the land of Egypt,
to Pharaoh, and to all his servants, and to all his land, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Deut.34.12" data-parsed="Deut_34_12_0_0" data-passage="Deut 34.12" id="Deut.34.12"/><sup>12</sup>and in all the mighty hand, and in all the great terror, which Moses wrought in the sight of all Israel.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>