<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Deuteronomy 21</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Deuteronomy 21</span></div><div data-next="Deut.22" data-prev="Deut.20" data-progress="18.92%" data-shorttitle="" id="Deut.21" title="Deuteronomy 21">
<h2 id="Deut.21-p0.1">21</h2>
<p id="Deut.21-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Deut.21.1" data-parsed="Deut_21_1_0_0" data-passage="Deut 21.1" id="Deut.21.1"/><sup>1</sup>If one be found slain in the land which Jehovah thy God giveth thee to possess it, lying in the field, and it be not known who hath smitten him; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Deut.21.2" data-parsed="Deut_21_2_0_0" data-passage="Deut 21.2" id="Deut.21.2"/><sup>2</sup>then thy elders and thy judges shall come forth, and they shall measure unto the cities which are round about him that is slain: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Deut.21.3" data-parsed="Deut_21_3_0_0" data-passage="Deut 21.3" id="Deut.21.3"/><sup>3</sup>and it shall be, that the city which is nearest unto the slain man, even the elders of that city shall take a heifer of the herd, which hath not been wrought with, and which hath not drawn in the yoke; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Deut.21.4" data-parsed="Deut_21_4_0_0" data-passage="Deut 21.4" id="Deut.21.4"/><sup>4</sup>and the elders of that city shall bring down the heifer unto a valley with running water, which is neither plowed nor sown, and shall break the heifer's neck there in the valley. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Deut.21.5" data-parsed="Deut_21_5_0_0" data-passage="Deut 21.5" id="Deut.21.5"/><sup>5</sup>And the priests the sons of Levi shall come near; for them Jehovah thy God hath chosen to minister unto him, and to bless in the name of Jehovah; and according to their word shall every controversy and every stroke be. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Deut.21.6" data-parsed="Deut_21_6_0_0" data-passage="Deut 21.6" id="Deut.21.6"/><sup>6</sup>And all the elders of that city, who are nearest unto the slain man,
shall wash their hands over the heifer whose neck was broken in the valley;

<span data-osisref="Bible:Deut.21.7" data-parsed="Deut_21_7_0_0" data-passage="Deut 21.7" id="Deut.21.7"/><sup>7</sup>and they shall answer and say, Our hands have not shed this blood,
neither have our eyes seen it. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Deut.21.8" data-parsed="Deut_21_8_0_0" data-passage="Deut 21.8" id="Deut.21.8"/><sup>8</sup>Forgive, O Jehovah, thy people Israel,
whom thou hast redeemed, and suffer not innocent blood <i>to remain</i> in the midst of thy people Israel. And the blood shall be forgiven them. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Deut.21.9" data-parsed="Deut_21_9_0_0" data-passage="Deut 21.9" id="Deut.21.9"/><sup>9</sup>So shalt thou put away the innocent blood from the midst of thee, when thou shalt do that which is right in the eyes of Jehovah.</p>
<p id="Deut.21-p2">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Deut.21.10" data-parsed="Deut_21_10_0_0" data-passage="Deut 21.10" id="Deut.21.10"/><sup>10</sup>When thou goest forth to battle against thine enemies, and Jehovah thy God delivereth them into thy hands, and thou carriest them away captive,

<span data-osisref="Bible:Deut.21.11" data-parsed="Deut_21_11_0_0" data-passage="Deut 21.11" id="Deut.21.11"/><sup>11</sup>and seest among the captives a beautiful woman, and thou hast a desire unto her, and wouldest take her to thee to wife; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Deut.21.12" data-parsed="Deut_21_12_0_0" data-passage="Deut 21.12" id="Deut.21.12"/><sup>12</sup>then thou shalt bring her home to thy house; and she shall shave her head, and pare her nails;

<span data-osisref="Bible:Deut.21.13" data-parsed="Deut_21_13_0_0" data-passage="Deut 21.13" id="Deut.21.13"/><sup>13</sup>and she shall put the raiment of her captivity from off her, and shall remain in thy house, and bewail her father and her mother a full month: and after that thou shalt go in unto her, and be her husband, and she shall be thy wife. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Deut.21.14" data-parsed="Deut_21_14_0_0" data-passage="Deut 21.14" id="Deut.21.14"/><sup>14</sup>And it shall be, if thou have no delight in her, then thou shalt let her go whither she will; but thou shalt not sell her at all for money, thou shalt not deal with her as a slave, because thou hast humbled her.</p>
<p id="Deut.21-p3">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Deut.21.15" data-parsed="Deut_21_15_0_0" data-passage="Deut 21.15" id="Deut.21.15"/><sup>15</sup>If a man have two wives, the one beloved, and the other hated, and they have borne him children, both the beloved and the hated; and if the first-born son be hers that was hated; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Deut.21.16" data-parsed="Deut_21_16_0_0" data-passage="Deut 21.16" id="Deut.21.16"/><sup>16</sup>then it shall be, in the day that he causeth his sons to inherit that which he hath, that he may not make the son of the beloved the first-born before the son of the hated, who is the first-born: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Deut.21.17" data-parsed="Deut_21_17_0_0" data-passage="Deut 21.17" id="Deut.21.17"/><sup>17</sup>but he shall acknowledge the first-born, the son of the hated, by giving him a double portion of all that he hath; for he is the beginning of his strength; the right of the first-born is his.</p>
<p id="Deut.21-p4">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Deut.21.18" data-parsed="Deut_21_18_0_0" data-passage="Deut 21.18" id="Deut.21.18"/><sup>18</sup>If a man have a stubborn and rebellious son, that will not obey the voice of his father, or the voice of his mother, and, though they chasten him, will not hearken unto them; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Deut.21.19" data-parsed="Deut_21_19_0_0" data-passage="Deut 21.19" id="Deut.21.19"/><sup>19</sup>then shall his father and his mother lay hold on him, and bring him out unto the elders of his city, and unto the gate of his place; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Deut.21.20" data-parsed="Deut_21_20_0_0" data-passage="Deut 21.20" id="Deut.21.20"/><sup>20</sup>and they shall say unto the elders of his city, This our son is stubborn and rebellious, he will not obey our voice; he is a glutton, and a drunkard. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Deut.21.21" data-parsed="Deut_21_21_0_0" data-passage="Deut 21.21" id="Deut.21.21"/><sup>21</sup>And all the men of his city shall stone him to death with stones: so shalt thou put away the evil from the midst of thee;
and all Israel shall hear, and fear.</p>
<p id="Deut.21-p5">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Deut.21.22" data-parsed="Deut_21_22_0_0" data-passage="Deut 21.22" id="Deut.21.22"/><sup>22</sup>And if a man have committed a sin worthy of death, and he be put to death, and thou hang him on a tree; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Deut.21.23" data-parsed="Deut_21_23_0_0" data-passage="Deut 21.23" id="Deut.21.23"/><sup>23</sup>his body shall not remain all night upon the tree, but thou shalt surely bury him the same day; for he that is hanged is accursed of God; that thou defile not thy land which Jehovah thy God giveth thee for an inheritance.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>