<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Deuteronomy 10</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Deuteronomy 10</span></div><div data-next="Deut.11" data-prev="Deut.9" data-progress="17.95%" data-shorttitle="" id="Deut.10" title="Deuteronomy 10">
<h2 id="Deut.10-p0.1">10</h2>
<p id="Deut.10-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Deut.10.1" data-parsed="Deut_10_1_0_0" data-passage="Deut 10.1" id="Deut.10.1"/><sup>1</sup>At that time Jehovah said unto me, Hew thee two tables of stone like unto the first, and come up unto me into the mount, and make thee an ark of wood. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Deut.10.2" data-parsed="Deut_10_2_0_0" data-passage="Deut 10.2" id="Deut.10.2"/><sup>2</sup>And I will write on the tables the words that were on the first tables which thou brakest, and thou shalt put them in the ark. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Deut.10.3" data-parsed="Deut_10_3_0_0" data-passage="Deut 10.3" id="Deut.10.3"/><sup>3</sup>So I made an ark of acacia wood, and hewed two tables of stone like unto the first, and went up into the mount, having the two tables in my hand. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Deut.10.4" data-parsed="Deut_10_4_0_0" data-passage="Deut 10.4" id="Deut.10.4"/><sup>4</sup>And he wrote on the tables, according to the first writing, the ten commandments, which Jehovah spake unto you in the mount out of the midst of the fire in the day of the assembly: and Jehovah gave them unto me. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Deut.10.5" data-parsed="Deut_10_5_0_0" data-passage="Deut 10.5" id="Deut.10.5"/><sup>5</sup>And I turned and came down from the mount, and put the tables in the ark which I had made; and there they are as Jehovah commanded me. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Deut.10.6" data-parsed="Deut_10_6_0_0" data-passage="Deut 10.6" id="Deut.10.6"/><sup>6</sup>(And the children of Israel journeyed from Beeroth Bene-jaakan to Moserah. There Aaron died, and there he was buried; and Eleazar his son ministered in the priest's office in his stead. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Deut.10.7" data-parsed="Deut_10_7_0_0" data-passage="Deut 10.7" id="Deut.10.7"/><sup>7</sup>From thence they journeyed unto Gudgodah; and from Gudgodah to Jotbathah, a land of brooks of water. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Deut.10.8" data-parsed="Deut_10_8_0_0" data-passage="Deut 10.8" id="Deut.10.8"/><sup>8</sup>At that time Jehovah set apart the tribe of Levi, to bear the ark of the covenant of Jehovah, to stand before Jehovah to minister unto him, and to bless in his name, unto this day.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Deut.10.9" data-parsed="Deut_10_9_0_0" data-passage="Deut 10.9" id="Deut.10.9"/><sup>9</sup>Wherefore Levi hath no portion nor inheritance with his brethren;
Jehovah is his inheritance, according as Jehovah thy God spake unto him.)

<span data-osisref="Bible:Deut.10.10" data-parsed="Deut_10_10_0_0" data-passage="Deut 10.10" id="Deut.10.10"/><sup>10</sup>And I stayed in the mount, as at the first time, forty days and forty nights: and Jehovah hearkened unto me that time also; Jehovah would not destroy thee. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Deut.10.11" data-parsed="Deut_10_11_0_0" data-passage="Deut 10.11" id="Deut.10.11"/><sup>11</sup>And Jehovah said unto me, Arise, take thy journey before the people; and they shall go in and possess the land, which I sware unto their fathers to give unto them.</p>
<p id="Deut.10-p2">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Deut.10.12" data-parsed="Deut_10_12_0_0" data-passage="Deut 10.12" id="Deut.10.12"/><sup>12</sup>And now, Israel, what doth Jehovah thy God require of thee, but to fear Jehovah thy God, to walk in all his ways, and to love him, and to serve Jehovah thy God with all thy heart and with all thy soul, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Deut.10.13" data-parsed="Deut_10_13_0_0" data-passage="Deut 10.13" id="Deut.10.13"/><sup>13</sup>to keep the commandments of Jehovah, and his statutes, which I command thee this day for thy good? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Deut.10.14" data-parsed="Deut_10_14_0_0" data-passage="Deut 10.14" id="Deut.10.14"/><sup>14</sup>Behold, unto Jehovah thy God belongeth heaven and the heaven of heavens, the earth, with all that is therein. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Deut.10.15" data-parsed="Deut_10_15_0_0" data-passage="Deut 10.15" id="Deut.10.15"/><sup>15</sup>Only Jehovah had a delight in thy fathers to love them, and he chose their seed after them, even you above all peoples, as at this day. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Deut.10.16" data-parsed="Deut_10_16_0_0" data-passage="Deut 10.16" id="Deut.10.16"/><sup>16</sup>Circumcise therefore the foreskin of your heart, and be no more stiffnecked. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Deut.10.17" data-parsed="Deut_10_17_0_0" data-passage="Deut 10.17" id="Deut.10.17"/><sup>17</sup>For Jehovah your God, he is God of gods, and Lord of lords, the great God, the mighty, and the terrible, who regardeth not persons, nor taketh reward. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Deut.10.18" data-parsed="Deut_10_18_0_0" data-passage="Deut 10.18" id="Deut.10.18"/><sup>18</sup>He doth execute justice for the fatherless and widow, and loveth the sojourner, in giving him food and raiment. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Deut.10.19" data-parsed="Deut_10_19_0_0" data-passage="Deut 10.19" id="Deut.10.19"/><sup>19</sup>Love ye therefore the sojourner; for ye were sojourners in the land of Egypt. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Deut.10.20" data-parsed="Deut_10_20_0_0" data-passage="Deut 10.20" id="Deut.10.20"/><sup>20</sup>Thou shalt fear Jehovah thy God; him shalt thou serve; and to him shalt thou cleave, and by his name shalt thou swear. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Deut.10.21" data-parsed="Deut_10_21_0_0" data-passage="Deut 10.21" id="Deut.10.21"/><sup>21</sup>He is thy praise, and he is thy God, that hath done for thee these great and terrible things, which thine eyes have seen. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Deut.10.22" data-parsed="Deut_10_22_0_0" data-passage="Deut 10.22" id="Deut.10.22"/><sup>22</sup>Thy fathers went down into Egypt with threescore and ten persons; and now Jehovah thy God hath made thee as the stars of heaven for multitude.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>