<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Ecclesiastes 2</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Ecclesiastes 2</span></div><div data-next="Eccl.3" data-prev="Eccl.1" data-progress="55.95%" data-shorttitle="" id="Eccl.2" title="Ecclesiastes 2">
<h2 id="Eccl.2-p0.1">2</h2>
<p id="Eccl.2-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Eccl.2.1" data-parsed="Eccl_2_1_0_0" data-passage="Eccl 2.1" id="Eccl.2.1"/><sup>1</sup>I said in my heart, Come now, I will prove thee with mirth;
therefore enjoy pleasure: and, behold, this also was vanity. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Eccl.2.2" data-parsed="Eccl_2_2_0_0" data-passage="Eccl 2.2" id="Eccl.2.2"/><sup>2</sup>I said of laughter, It is mad; and of mirth, What doeth it? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Eccl.2.3" data-parsed="Eccl_2_3_0_0" data-passage="Eccl 2.3" id="Eccl.2.3"/><sup>3</sup>I searched in my heart how to cheer my flesh with wine, my heart yet guiding <i>me</i> with wisdom,
and how to lay hold on folly, till I might see what it was good for the sons of men that they should do under heaven all the days of their life. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Eccl.2.4" data-parsed="Eccl_2_4_0_0" data-passage="Eccl 2.4" id="Eccl.2.4"/><sup>4</sup>I made me great works; I builded me houses; I planted me vineyards; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Eccl.2.5" data-parsed="Eccl_2_5_0_0" data-passage="Eccl 2.5" id="Eccl.2.5"/><sup>5</sup>I made me gardens and parks, and I planted trees in them of all kinds of fruit;

<span data-osisref="Bible:Eccl.2.6" data-parsed="Eccl_2_6_0_0" data-passage="Eccl 2.6" id="Eccl.2.6"/><sup>6</sup>I made me pools of water, to water therefrom the forest where trees were reared; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Eccl.2.7" data-parsed="Eccl_2_7_0_0" data-passage="Eccl 2.7" id="Eccl.2.7"/><sup>7</sup>I bought men-servants and maid-servants, and had servants born in my house; also I had great possessions of herds and flocks, above all that were before me in Jerusalem; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Eccl.2.8" data-parsed="Eccl_2_8_0_0" data-passage="Eccl 2.8" id="Eccl.2.8"/><sup>8</sup>I gathered me also silver and gold, and the treasure of kings and of the provinces; I gat me men-singers and women-singers, and the delights of the sons of men, musical instruments, and that of all sorts. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Eccl.2.9" data-parsed="Eccl_2_9_0_0" data-passage="Eccl 2.9" id="Eccl.2.9"/><sup>9</sup>So I was great, and increased more than all that were before me in Jerusalem: also my wisdom remained with me. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Eccl.2.10" data-parsed="Eccl_2_10_0_0" data-passage="Eccl 2.10" id="Eccl.2.10"/><sup>10</sup>And whatsoever mine eyes desired I kept not from them; I withheld not my heart from any joy;
for my heart rejoiced because of all my labor; and this was my portion from all my labor. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Eccl.2.11" data-parsed="Eccl_2_11_0_0" data-passage="Eccl 2.11" id="Eccl.2.11"/><sup>11</sup>Then I looked on all the works that my hands had wrought,
and on the labor that I had labored to do; and, behold, all was vanity and a striving after wind, and there was no profit under the sun. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Eccl.2.12" data-parsed="Eccl_2_12_0_0" data-passage="Eccl 2.12" id="Eccl.2.12"/><sup>12</sup>And I turned myself to behold wisdom, and madness, and folly: for what <i>can</i>
the man <i>do</i> that cometh after the king? <i>even</i> that which hath been done long ago. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Eccl.2.13" data-parsed="Eccl_2_13_0_0" data-passage="Eccl 2.13" id="Eccl.2.13"/><sup>13</sup>Then I saw that wisdom excelleth folly, as far as light excelleth darkness. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Eccl.2.14" data-parsed="Eccl_2_14_0_0" data-passage="Eccl 2.14" id="Eccl.2.14"/><sup>14</sup>The wise man's eyes are in his head, and the fool walketh in darkness: and yet I perceived that one event happeneth to them all. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Eccl.2.15" data-parsed="Eccl_2_15_0_0" data-passage="Eccl 2.15" id="Eccl.2.15"/><sup>15</sup>Then said I in my heart, As it happeneth to the fool, so will it happen even to me; and why was I then more wise? Then said I in my heart,
that this also is vanity. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Eccl.2.16" data-parsed="Eccl_2_16_0_0" data-passage="Eccl 2.16" id="Eccl.2.16"/><sup>16</sup>For of the wise man, even as of the fool,
there is no remembrance for ever; seeing that in the days to come all will have been long forgotten. And how doth the wise man die even as the fool!

<span data-osisref="Bible:Eccl.2.17" data-parsed="Eccl_2_17_0_0" data-passage="Eccl 2.17" id="Eccl.2.17"/><sup>17</sup>So I hated life, because the work that is wrought under the sun was grievous unto me; for all is vanity and a striving after wind. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Eccl.2.18" data-parsed="Eccl_2_18_0_0" data-passage="Eccl 2.18" id="Eccl.2.18"/><sup>18</sup>And I hated all my labor wherein I labored under the sun, seeing that I must leave it unto the man that shall be after me. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Eccl.2.19" data-parsed="Eccl_2_19_0_0" data-passage="Eccl 2.19" id="Eccl.2.19"/><sup>19</sup>And who knoweth whether he will be a wise man or a fool? yet will he have rule over all my labor wherein I have labored, and wherein I have showed myself wise under the sun. This also is vanity. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Eccl.2.20" data-parsed="Eccl_2_20_0_0" data-passage="Eccl 2.20" id="Eccl.2.20"/><sup>20</sup>Therefore I turned about to cause my heart to despair concerning all the labor wherein I had labored under the sun. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Eccl.2.21" data-parsed="Eccl_2_21_0_0" data-passage="Eccl 2.21" id="Eccl.2.21"/><sup>21</sup>For there is a man whose labor is with wisdom, and with knowledge, and with skilfulness; yet to a man that hath not labored therein shall he leave it for his portion. This also is vanity and a great evil. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Eccl.2.22" data-parsed="Eccl_2_22_0_0" data-passage="Eccl 2.22" id="Eccl.2.22"/><sup>22</sup>For what hath a man of all his labor, and of the striving of his heart, wherein he laboreth under the sun? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Eccl.2.23" data-parsed="Eccl_2_23_0_0" data-passage="Eccl 2.23" id="Eccl.2.23"/><sup>23</sup>For all his days are <i>but</i> sorrows, and his travail is grief; yea, even in the night his heart taketh no rest. This also is vanity.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Eccl.2.24" data-parsed="Eccl_2_24_0_0" data-passage="Eccl 2.24" id="Eccl.2.24"/><sup>24</sup>There is nothing better for a man <i>than</i> that he should eat and drink, and make his soul enjoy good in his labor. This also I saw, that it is from the hand of God. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Eccl.2.25" data-parsed="Eccl_2_25_0_0" data-passage="Eccl 2.25" id="Eccl.2.25"/><sup>25</sup>For who can eat, or who can have enjoyment, more than I? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Eccl.2.26" data-parsed="Eccl_2_26_0_0" data-passage="Eccl 2.26" id="Eccl.2.26"/><sup>26</sup>For to the man that pleaseth him <i>God</i> giveth wisdom, and knowledge, and joy; but to the sinner he giveth travail, to gather and to heap up, that he may give to him that pleaseth God. This also is vanity and a striving after wind.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>