<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Ecclesiastes 4</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Ecclesiastes 4</span></div><div data-next="Eccl.5" data-prev="Eccl.3" data-progress="56.10%" data-shorttitle="" id="Eccl.4" title="Ecclesiastes 4">
<h2 id="Eccl.4-p0.1">4</h2>
<p id="Eccl.4-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Eccl.4.1" data-parsed="Eccl_4_1_0_0" data-passage="Eccl 4.1" id="Eccl.4.1"/><sup>1</sup>Then I returned and saw all the oppressions that are done under the sun:
and, behold, the tears of such as were oppressed, and they had no comforter;
and on the side of their oppressors there was power; but they had no comforter. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Eccl.4.2" data-parsed="Eccl_4_2_0_0" data-passage="Eccl 4.2" id="Eccl.4.2"/><sup>2</sup>Wherefore I praised the dead that have been long dead more than the living that are yet alive; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Eccl.4.3" data-parsed="Eccl_4_3_0_0" data-passage="Eccl 4.3" id="Eccl.4.3"/><sup>3</sup>yea, better than them both <i>did I esteem</i> him that hath not yet been, who hath not seen the evil work that is done under the sun. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Eccl.4.4" data-parsed="Eccl_4_4_0_0" data-passage="Eccl 4.4" id="Eccl.4.4"/><sup>4</sup>Then I saw all labor and every skilful work, that for this a man is envied of his neighbor. This also is vanity and a striving after wind. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Eccl.4.5" data-parsed="Eccl_4_5_0_0" data-passage="Eccl 4.5" id="Eccl.4.5"/><sup>5</sup>The fool foldeth his hands together, and eateth his own flesh. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Eccl.4.6" data-parsed="Eccl_4_6_0_0" data-passage="Eccl 4.6" id="Eccl.4.6"/><sup>6</sup>Better is a handful, with quietness, than two handfuls with labor and striving after wind. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Eccl.4.7" data-parsed="Eccl_4_7_0_0" data-passage="Eccl 4.7" id="Eccl.4.7"/><sup>7</sup>Then I returned and saw vanity under the sun.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Eccl.4.8" data-parsed="Eccl_4_8_0_0" data-passage="Eccl 4.8" id="Eccl.4.8"/><sup>8</sup>There is one that is alone, and he hath not a second; yea, he hath neither son nor brother; yet is there no end of all his labor, neither are his eyes satisfied with riches. For whom then, <i>saith he</i>, do I labor,
and deprive my soul of good? This also is vanity, yea, it is a sore travail.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Eccl.4.9" data-parsed="Eccl_4_9_0_0" data-passage="Eccl 4.9" id="Eccl.4.9"/><sup>9</sup>Two are better than one, because they have a good reward for their labor. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Eccl.4.10" data-parsed="Eccl_4_10_0_0" data-passage="Eccl 4.10" id="Eccl.4.10"/><sup>10</sup>For if they fall, the one will lift up his fellow; but woe to him that is alone when he falleth, and hath not another to lift him up.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Eccl.4.11" data-parsed="Eccl_4_11_0_0" data-passage="Eccl 4.11" id="Eccl.4.11"/><sup>11</sup>Again, if two lie together, then they have warmth; but how can one be warm <i>alone</i>? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Eccl.4.12" data-parsed="Eccl_4_12_0_0" data-passage="Eccl 4.12" id="Eccl.4.12"/><sup>12</sup>And if a man prevail against him that is alone, two shall withstand him; and a threefold cord is not quickly broken. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Eccl.4.13" data-parsed="Eccl_4_13_0_0" data-passage="Eccl 4.13" id="Eccl.4.13"/><sup>13</sup>Better is a poor and wise youth than an old and foolish king, who knoweth not how to receive admonition any more. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Eccl.4.14" data-parsed="Eccl_4_14_0_0" data-passage="Eccl 4.14" id="Eccl.4.14"/><sup>14</sup>For out of prison he came forth to be king; yea, even in his kingdom he was born poor. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Eccl.4.15" data-parsed="Eccl_4_15_0_0" data-passage="Eccl 4.15" id="Eccl.4.15"/><sup>15</sup>I saw all the living that walk under the sun, that they were with the youth, the second, that stood up in his stead. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Eccl.4.16" data-parsed="Eccl_4_16_0_0" data-passage="Eccl 4.16" id="Eccl.4.16"/><sup>16</sup>There was no end of all the people, even of all them over whom he was: yet they that come after shall not rejoice in him.
Surely this also is vanity and a striving after wind.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>