<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Ecclesiastes 12</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Ecclesiastes 12</span></div><div data-next="Song" data-prev="Eccl.11" data-progress="56.53%" data-shorttitle="" id="Eccl.12" title="Ecclesiastes 12">
<h2 id="Eccl.12-p0.1">12</h2>
<p id="Eccl.12-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Eccl.12.1" data-parsed="Eccl_12_1_0_0" data-passage="Eccl 12.1" id="Eccl.12.1"/><sup>1</sup>Remember also thy Creator in the days of thy youth, before the evil days come, and the years draw nigh, when thou shalt say, I have no pleasure in them; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Eccl.12.2" data-parsed="Eccl_12_2_0_0" data-passage="Eccl 12.2" id="Eccl.12.2"/><sup>2</sup>before the sun, and the light, and the moon, and the stars, are darkened, and the clouds return after the rain; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Eccl.12.3" data-parsed="Eccl_12_3_0_0" data-passage="Eccl 12.3" id="Eccl.12.3"/><sup>3</sup>in the day when the keepers of the house shall tremble, and the strong men shall bow themselves, and the grinders cease because they are few, and those that look out of the windows shall be darkened, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Eccl.12.4" data-parsed="Eccl_12_4_0_0" data-passage="Eccl 12.4" id="Eccl.12.4"/><sup>4</sup>and the doors shall be shut in the street; when the sound of the grinding is low, and one shall rise up at the voice of a bird, and all the daughters of music shall be brought low;

<span data-osisref="Bible:Eccl.12.5" data-parsed="Eccl_12_5_0_0" data-passage="Eccl 12.5" id="Eccl.12.5"/><sup>5</sup>yea, they shall be afraid of <i>that which is</i> high, and terrors <i>shall be</i> in the way; and the almond-tree shall blossom, and the grasshopper shall be a burden, and desire shall fail; because man goeth to his everlasting home, and the mourners go about the streets: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Eccl.12.6" data-parsed="Eccl_12_6_0_0" data-passage="Eccl 12.6" id="Eccl.12.6"/><sup>6</sup>before the silver cord is loosed, or the golden bowl is broken, or the pitcher is broken at the fountain, or the wheel broken at the cistern, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Eccl.12.7" data-parsed="Eccl_12_7_0_0" data-passage="Eccl 12.7" id="Eccl.12.7"/><sup>7</sup>and the dust returneth to the earth as it was, and the spirit returneth unto God who gave it. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Eccl.12.8" data-parsed="Eccl_12_8_0_0" data-passage="Eccl 12.8" id="Eccl.12.8"/><sup>8</sup>Vanity of vanities, saith the Preacher; all is vanity. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Eccl.12.9" data-parsed="Eccl_12_9_0_0" data-passage="Eccl 12.9" id="Eccl.12.9"/><sup>9</sup>And further, because the Preacher was wise, he still taught the people knowledge;
yea, he pondered, and sought out, <i>and</i> set in order many proverbs.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Eccl.12.10" data-parsed="Eccl_12_10_0_0" data-passage="Eccl 12.10" id="Eccl.12.10"/><sup>10</sup>The Preacher sought to find out acceptable words, and that which was written uprightly, <i>even</i> words of truth. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Eccl.12.11" data-parsed="Eccl_12_11_0_0" data-passage="Eccl 12.11" id="Eccl.12.11"/><sup>11</sup>The words of the wise are as goads; and as nails well fastened are <i>the words of</i> the masters of assemblies, <i>which</i> are given from one shepherd. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Eccl.12.12" data-parsed="Eccl_12_12_0_0" data-passage="Eccl 12.12" id="Eccl.12.12"/><sup>12</sup>And furthermore, my son, be admonished: of making many books there is no end; and much study is a weariness of the flesh. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Eccl.12.13" data-parsed="Eccl_12_13_0_0" data-passage="Eccl 12.13" id="Eccl.12.13"/><sup>13</sup><i>This is</i> the end of the matter; all hath been heard: fear God, and keep his commandments; for this is the whole <i>duty</i> of man. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Eccl.12.14" data-parsed="Eccl_12_14_0_0" data-passage="Eccl 12.14" id="Eccl.12.14"/><sup>14</sup>For God will bring every work into judgment, with every hidden thing, whether it be good, or whether it be evil.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>