<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Ecclesiastes 11</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Ecclesiastes 11</span></div><div data-next="Eccl.12" data-prev="Eccl.10" data-progress="56.50%" data-shorttitle="" id="Eccl.11" title="Ecclesiastes 11">
<h2 id="Eccl.11-p0.1">11</h2>
<p id="Eccl.11-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Eccl.11.1" data-parsed="Eccl_11_1_0_0" data-passage="Eccl 11.1" id="Eccl.11.1"/><sup>1</sup>Cast thy bread upon the waters; for thou shalt find it after many days. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Eccl.11.2" data-parsed="Eccl_11_2_0_0" data-passage="Eccl 11.2" id="Eccl.11.2"/><sup>2</sup>Give a portion to seven, yea, even unto eight; for thou knowest not what evil shall be upon the earth. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Eccl.11.3" data-parsed="Eccl_11_3_0_0" data-passage="Eccl 11.3" id="Eccl.11.3"/><sup>3</sup>If the clouds be full of rain,
they empty themselves upon the earth; and if a tree fall toward the south, or toward the north, in the place where the tree falleth, there shall it be.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Eccl.11.4" data-parsed="Eccl_11_4_0_0" data-passage="Eccl 11.4" id="Eccl.11.4"/><sup>4</sup>He that observeth the wind shall not sow; and he that regardeth the clouds shall not reap. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Eccl.11.5" data-parsed="Eccl_11_5_0_0" data-passage="Eccl 11.5" id="Eccl.11.5"/><sup>5</sup>As thou knowest not what is the way of the wind,
<i>nor</i> how the bones <i>do grow</i> in the womb of her that is with child; even so thou knowest not the work of God who doeth all. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Eccl.11.6" data-parsed="Eccl_11_6_0_0" data-passage="Eccl 11.6" id="Eccl.11.6"/><sup>6</sup>In the morning sow thy seed, and in the evening withhold not thy hand; for thou knowest not which shall prosper, whether this or that, or whether they both shall be alike good. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Eccl.11.7" data-parsed="Eccl_11_7_0_0" data-passage="Eccl 11.7" id="Eccl.11.7"/><sup>7</sup>Truly the light is sweet, and a pleasant thing it is for the eyes to behold the sun. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Eccl.11.8" data-parsed="Eccl_11_8_0_0" data-passage="Eccl 11.8" id="Eccl.11.8"/><sup>8</sup>Yea, if a man live many years, let him rejoice in them all; but let him remember the days of darkness, for they shall be many. All that cometh is vanity. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Eccl.11.9" data-parsed="Eccl_11_9_0_0" data-passage="Eccl 11.9" id="Eccl.11.9"/><sup>9</sup>Rejoice, O young man, in thy youth, and let thy heart cheer thee in the days of thy youth, and walk in the ways of thy heart, and in the sight of thine eyes; but know thou, that for all these things God will bring thee into judgment. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Eccl.11.10" data-parsed="Eccl_11_10_0_0" data-passage="Eccl 11.10" id="Eccl.11.10"/><sup>10</sup>Therefore remove sorrow from thy heart, and put away evil from thy flesh; for youth and the dawn of life are vanity.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>