<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Ecclesiastes 10</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Ecclesiastes 10</span></div><div data-next="Eccl.11" data-prev="Eccl.9" data-progress="56.45%" data-shorttitle="" id="Eccl.10" title="Ecclesiastes 10">
<h2 id="Eccl.10-p0.1">10</h2>
<p id="Eccl.10-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Eccl.10.1" data-parsed="Eccl_10_1_0_0" data-passage="Eccl 10.1" id="Eccl.10.1"/><sup>1</sup>Dead flies cause the oil of the perfumer to send forth an evil odor; <i>so</i> doth a little folly outweigh wisdom and honor. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Eccl.10.2" data-parsed="Eccl_10_2_0_0" data-passage="Eccl 10.2" id="Eccl.10.2"/><sup>2</sup>A wise man's heart is at his right hand; but a fool's heart at his left. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Eccl.10.3" data-parsed="Eccl_10_3_0_0" data-passage="Eccl 10.3" id="Eccl.10.3"/><sup>3</sup>Yea also, when the fool walketh by the way, his understanding faileth him, and he saith to every one <i>that</i> he is a fool. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Eccl.10.4" data-parsed="Eccl_10_4_0_0" data-passage="Eccl 10.4" id="Eccl.10.4"/><sup>4</sup>If the spirit of the ruler rise up against thee, leave not thy place; for gentleness allayeth great offences. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Eccl.10.5" data-parsed="Eccl_10_5_0_0" data-passage="Eccl 10.5" id="Eccl.10.5"/><sup>5</sup>There is an evil which I have seen under the sun, as it were an error which proceedeth from the ruler: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Eccl.10.6" data-parsed="Eccl_10_6_0_0" data-passage="Eccl 10.6" id="Eccl.10.6"/><sup>6</sup>folly is set in great dignity,
and the rich sit in a low place. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Eccl.10.7" data-parsed="Eccl_10_7_0_0" data-passage="Eccl 10.7" id="Eccl.10.7"/><sup>7</sup>I have seen servants upon horses, and princes walking like servants upon the earth. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Eccl.10.8" data-parsed="Eccl_10_8_0_0" data-passage="Eccl 10.8" id="Eccl.10.8"/><sup>8</sup>He that diggeth a pit shall fall into it; and whoso breaketh through a wall, a serpent shall bite him. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Eccl.10.9" data-parsed="Eccl_10_9_0_0" data-passage="Eccl 10.9" id="Eccl.10.9"/><sup>9</sup>Whoso heweth out stones shall be hurt therewith; <i>and</i> he that cleaveth wood is endangered thereby. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Eccl.10.10" data-parsed="Eccl_10_10_0_0" data-passage="Eccl 10.10" id="Eccl.10.10"/><sup>10</sup>If the iron be blunt, and one do not whet the edge, then must he put to more strength: but wisdom is profitable to direct. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Eccl.10.11" data-parsed="Eccl_10_11_0_0" data-passage="Eccl 10.11" id="Eccl.10.11"/><sup>11</sup>If the serpent bite before it is charmed, then is there no advantage in the charmer. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Eccl.10.12" data-parsed="Eccl_10_12_0_0" data-passage="Eccl 10.12" id="Eccl.10.12"/><sup>12</sup>The words of a wise man's mouth are gracious; but the lips of a fool will swallow up himself. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Eccl.10.13" data-parsed="Eccl_10_13_0_0" data-passage="Eccl 10.13" id="Eccl.10.13"/><sup>13</sup>The beginning of the words of his mouth is foolishness; and the end of his talk is mischievous madness. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Eccl.10.14" data-parsed="Eccl_10_14_0_0" data-passage="Eccl 10.14" id="Eccl.10.14"/><sup>14</sup>A fool also multiplieth words: <i>yet</i> man knoweth not what shall be; and that which shall be after him, who can tell him? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Eccl.10.15" data-parsed="Eccl_10_15_0_0" data-passage="Eccl 10.15" id="Eccl.10.15"/><sup>15</sup>The labor of fools wearieth every one of them; for he knoweth not how to go to the city. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Eccl.10.16" data-parsed="Eccl_10_16_0_0" data-passage="Eccl 10.16" id="Eccl.10.16"/><sup>16</sup>Woe to thee, O land, when thy king is a child,
and thy princes eat in the morning! 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Eccl.10.17" data-parsed="Eccl_10_17_0_0" data-passage="Eccl 10.17" id="Eccl.10.17"/><sup>17</sup>Happy art thou, O land, when thy king is the son of nobles, and thy princes eat in due season, for strength,
and not for drunkenness! 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Eccl.10.18" data-parsed="Eccl_10_18_0_0" data-passage="Eccl 10.18" id="Eccl.10.18"/><sup>18</sup>By slothfulness the roof sinketh in; and through idleness of the hands the house leaketh. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Eccl.10.19" data-parsed="Eccl_10_19_0_0" data-passage="Eccl 10.19" id="Eccl.10.19"/><sup>19</sup>A feast is made for laughter, and wine maketh glad the life; and money answereth all things.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Eccl.10.20" data-parsed="Eccl_10_20_0_0" data-passage="Eccl 10.20" id="Eccl.10.20"/><sup>20</sup>Revile not the king, no, not in thy thought; and revile not the rich in thy bedchamber: for a bird of the heavens shall carry the voice, and that which hath wings shall tell the matter.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>