<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Ecclesiastes 3</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Ecclesiastes 3</span></div><div data-next="Eccl.4" data-prev="Eccl.2" data-progress="56.04%" data-shorttitle="" id="Eccl.3" title="Ecclesiastes 3">
<h2 id="Eccl.3-p0.1">3</h2>
<p id="Eccl.3-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Eccl.3.1" data-parsed="Eccl_3_1_0_0" data-passage="Eccl 3.1" id="Eccl.3.1"/><sup>1</sup>For everything there is a season, and a time for very purpose under heaven: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Eccl.3.2" data-parsed="Eccl_3_2_0_0" data-passage="Eccl 3.2" id="Eccl.3.2"/><sup>2</sup>a time to be born, and a time to die; a time to plant, and a time to pluck up that which is planted; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Eccl.3.3" data-parsed="Eccl_3_3_0_0" data-passage="Eccl 3.3" id="Eccl.3.3"/><sup>3</sup>a time to kill, and a time to heal; a time to break down, and a time to build up; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Eccl.3.4" data-parsed="Eccl_3_4_0_0" data-passage="Eccl 3.4" id="Eccl.3.4"/><sup>4</sup>a time to weep, and a time to laugh; a time to mourn, and a time to dance; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Eccl.3.5" data-parsed="Eccl_3_5_0_0" data-passage="Eccl 3.5" id="Eccl.3.5"/><sup>5</sup>a time to cast away stones, and a time to gather stones together; a time to embrace, and a time to refrain from embracing; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Eccl.3.6" data-parsed="Eccl_3_6_0_0" data-passage="Eccl 3.6" id="Eccl.3.6"/><sup>6</sup>a time to seek, and a time to lose; a time to keep, and a time to cast away; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Eccl.3.7" data-parsed="Eccl_3_7_0_0" data-passage="Eccl 3.7" id="Eccl.3.7"/><sup>7</sup>a time to rend, and a time to sew; a time to keep silence, and a time to speak; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Eccl.3.8" data-parsed="Eccl_3_8_0_0" data-passage="Eccl 3.8" id="Eccl.3.8"/><sup>8</sup>a time to love, and a time to hate; a time for war, and a time for peace. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Eccl.3.9" data-parsed="Eccl_3_9_0_0" data-passage="Eccl 3.9" id="Eccl.3.9"/><sup>9</sup>What profit hath he that worketh in that wherein he laboreth? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Eccl.3.10" data-parsed="Eccl_3_10_0_0" data-passage="Eccl 3.10" id="Eccl.3.10"/><sup>10</sup>I have seen the travail which God hath given to the sons of men to be exercised therewith. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Eccl.3.11" data-parsed="Eccl_3_11_0_0" data-passage="Eccl 3.11" id="Eccl.3.11"/><sup>11</sup>He hath made everything beautiful in its time: also he hath set eternity in their heart, yet so that man cannot find out the work that God hath done from the beginning even to the end. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Eccl.3.12" data-parsed="Eccl_3_12_0_0" data-passage="Eccl 3.12" id="Eccl.3.12"/><sup>12</sup>I know that there is nothing better for them, than to rejoice, and to do good so long as they live. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Eccl.3.13" data-parsed="Eccl_3_13_0_0" data-passage="Eccl 3.13" id="Eccl.3.13"/><sup>13</sup>And also that every man should eat and drink, and enjoy good in all his labor, is the gift of God. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Eccl.3.14" data-parsed="Eccl_3_14_0_0" data-passage="Eccl 3.14" id="Eccl.3.14"/><sup>14</sup>I know that, whatsoever God doeth, it shall be for ever:
nothing can be put to it, nor anything taken from it; and God hath done it,
that men should fear before him. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Eccl.3.15" data-parsed="Eccl_3_15_0_0" data-passage="Eccl 3.15" id="Eccl.3.15"/><sup>15</sup>That which is hath been long ago; and that which is to be hath long ago been: and God seeketh again that which is passed away. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Eccl.3.16" data-parsed="Eccl_3_16_0_0" data-passage="Eccl 3.16" id="Eccl.3.16"/><sup>16</sup>And moreover I saw under the sun, in the place of justice,
that wickedness was there; and in the place of righteousness, that wickedness was there. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Eccl.3.17" data-parsed="Eccl_3_17_0_0" data-passage="Eccl 3.17" id="Eccl.3.17"/><sup>17</sup>I said in my heart, God will judge the righteous and the wicked; for there is a time there for every purpose and for every work.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Eccl.3.18" data-parsed="Eccl_3_18_0_0" data-passage="Eccl 3.18" id="Eccl.3.18"/><sup>18</sup>I said in my heart, <i>It is</i> because of the sons of men, that God may prove them, and that they may see that they themselves are <i>but as</i>
beasts. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Eccl.3.19" data-parsed="Eccl_3_19_0_0" data-passage="Eccl 3.19" id="Eccl.3.19"/><sup>19</sup>For that which befalleth the sons of men befalleth beasts; even one thing befalleth them: as the one dieth, so dieth the other; yea, they have all one breath; and man hath no preeminence above the beasts: for all is vanity. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Eccl.3.20" data-parsed="Eccl_3_20_0_0" data-passage="Eccl 3.20" id="Eccl.3.20"/><sup>20</sup>All go unto one place; all are of the dust, and all turn to dust again. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Eccl.3.21" data-parsed="Eccl_3_21_0_0" data-passage="Eccl 3.21" id="Eccl.3.21"/><sup>21</sup>Who knoweth the spirit of man, whether it goeth upward, and the spirit of the beast, whether it goeth downward to the earth?

<span data-osisref="Bible:Eccl.3.22" data-parsed="Eccl_3_22_0_0" data-passage="Eccl 3.22" id="Eccl.3.22"/><sup>22</sup>Wherefore I saw that there is nothing better, than that a man should rejoice in his works; for that is his portion: for who shall bring him <i>back</i> to see what shall be after him?</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>