<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Ecclesiastes 6</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Ecclesiastes 6</span></div><div data-next="Eccl.7" data-prev="Eccl.5" data-progress="56.21%" data-shorttitle="" id="Eccl.6" title="Ecclesiastes 6">
<h2 id="Eccl.6-p0.1">6</h2>
<p id="Eccl.6-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Eccl.6.1" data-parsed="Eccl_6_1_0_0" data-passage="Eccl 6.1" id="Eccl.6.1"/><sup>1</sup>There is an evil which I have seen under the sun, and it is heavy upon men: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Eccl.6.2" data-parsed="Eccl_6_2_0_0" data-passage="Eccl 6.2" id="Eccl.6.2"/><sup>2</sup>a man to whom God giveth riches, wealth, and honor, so that he lacketh nothing for his soul of all that he desireth, yet God giveth him not power to eat thereof, but an alien eateth it; this is vanity, and it is an evil disease. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Eccl.6.3" data-parsed="Eccl_6_3_0_0" data-passage="Eccl 6.3" id="Eccl.6.3"/><sup>3</sup>If a man beget a hundred children, and live many years, so that the days of his years are many, but his soul be not filled with good,
and moreover he have no burial; I say, that an untimely birth is better than he: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Eccl.6.4" data-parsed="Eccl_6_4_0_0" data-passage="Eccl 6.4" id="Eccl.6.4"/><sup>4</sup>for it cometh in vanity, and departeth in darkness, and the name thereof is covered with darkness; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Eccl.6.5" data-parsed="Eccl_6_5_0_0" data-passage="Eccl 6.5" id="Eccl.6.5"/><sup>5</sup>moreover it hath not seen the sun nor known it; this hath rest rather than the other: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Eccl.6.6" data-parsed="Eccl_6_6_0_0" data-passage="Eccl 6.6" id="Eccl.6.6"/><sup>6</sup>yea, though he live a thousand years twice told, and yet enjoy no good, do not all go to one place?

<span data-osisref="Bible:Eccl.6.7" data-parsed="Eccl_6_7_0_0" data-passage="Eccl 6.7" id="Eccl.6.7"/><sup>7</sup>All the labor of man is for his mouth, and yet the appetite is not filled. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Eccl.6.8" data-parsed="Eccl_6_8_0_0" data-passage="Eccl 6.8" id="Eccl.6.8"/><sup>8</sup>For what advantage hath the wise more than the fool? <i>or</i>
what hath the poor man, that knoweth how to walk before the living?

<span data-osisref="Bible:Eccl.6.9" data-parsed="Eccl_6_9_0_0" data-passage="Eccl 6.9" id="Eccl.6.9"/><sup>9</sup>Better is the sight of the eyes than the wandering of the desire: this also is vanity and a striving after wind. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Eccl.6.10" data-parsed="Eccl_6_10_0_0" data-passage="Eccl 6.10" id="Eccl.6.10"/><sup>10</sup>Whatsoever hath been, the name thereof was given long ago; and it is know what man is; neither can he contend with him that is mightier than he. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Eccl.6.11" data-parsed="Eccl_6_11_0_0" data-passage="Eccl 6.11" id="Eccl.6.11"/><sup>11</sup>Seeing there are many things that increase vanity, what is man the better? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Eccl.6.12" data-parsed="Eccl_6_12_0_0" data-passage="Eccl 6.12" id="Eccl.6.12"/><sup>12</sup>For who knoweth what is good for man in <i>his</i> life, all the days of his vain life which he spendeth as a shadow? for who can tell a man what shall be after him under the sun?</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>