<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Ecclesiastes 7</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Ecclesiastes 7</span></div><div data-next="Eccl.8" data-prev="Eccl.6" data-progress="56.25%" data-shorttitle="" id="Eccl.7" title="Ecclesiastes 7">
<h2 id="Eccl.7-p0.1">7</h2>
<p id="Eccl.7-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Eccl.7.1" data-parsed="Eccl_7_1_0_0" data-passage="Eccl 7.1" id="Eccl.7.1"/><sup>1</sup>A <i>good</i> name is better than precious oil; and the day of death, than the day of one's birth. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Eccl.7.2" data-parsed="Eccl_7_2_0_0" data-passage="Eccl 7.2" id="Eccl.7.2"/><sup>2</sup>It is better to go to the house of mourning than to go to the house of feasting: for that is the end of all men;
and the living will lay it to his heart. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Eccl.7.3" data-parsed="Eccl_7_3_0_0" data-passage="Eccl 7.3" id="Eccl.7.3"/><sup>3</sup>Sorrow is better than laughter;
for by the sadness of the countenance the heart is made glad. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Eccl.7.4" data-parsed="Eccl_7_4_0_0" data-passage="Eccl 7.4" id="Eccl.7.4"/><sup>4</sup>The heart of the wise is in the house of mourning; but the heart of fools is in the house of mirth. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Eccl.7.5" data-parsed="Eccl_7_5_0_0" data-passage="Eccl 7.5" id="Eccl.7.5"/><sup>5</sup>It is better to hear the rebuke of the wise, than for a man to hear the song of fools. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Eccl.7.6" data-parsed="Eccl_7_6_0_0" data-passage="Eccl 7.6" id="Eccl.7.6"/><sup>6</sup>For as the crackling of thorns under a pot, so is the laughter of the fool: this also is vanity. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Eccl.7.7" data-parsed="Eccl_7_7_0_0" data-passage="Eccl 7.7" id="Eccl.7.7"/><sup>7</sup>Surely extortion maketh the wise man foolish; and a bribe destroyeth the understanding. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Eccl.7.8" data-parsed="Eccl_7_8_0_0" data-passage="Eccl 7.8" id="Eccl.7.8"/><sup>8</sup>Better is the end of a thing than the beginning thereof;
<i>and</i> the patient in spirit is better than the proud in spirit. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Eccl.7.9" data-parsed="Eccl_7_9_0_0" data-passage="Eccl 7.9" id="Eccl.7.9"/><sup>9</sup>Be not hasty in thy spirit to be angry; for anger resteth in the bosom of fools.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Eccl.7.10" data-parsed="Eccl_7_10_0_0" data-passage="Eccl 7.10" id="Eccl.7.10"/><sup>10</sup>Say not thou, What is the cause that the former days were better than these? for thou dost not inquire wisely concerning this. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Eccl.7.11" data-parsed="Eccl_7_11_0_0" data-passage="Eccl 7.11" id="Eccl.7.11"/><sup>11</sup>Wisdom is as good as an inheritance; yea, more excellent is it for them that see the sun.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Eccl.7.12" data-parsed="Eccl_7_12_0_0" data-passage="Eccl 7.12" id="Eccl.7.12"/><sup>12</sup>For wisdom is a defence, even as money is a defence; but the excellency of knowledge is, that wisdom preserveth the life of him that hath it.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Eccl.7.13" data-parsed="Eccl_7_13_0_0" data-passage="Eccl 7.13" id="Eccl.7.13"/><sup>13</sup>Consider the work of God: for who can make that straight, which he hath made crooked? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Eccl.7.14" data-parsed="Eccl_7_14_0_0" data-passage="Eccl 7.14" id="Eccl.7.14"/><sup>14</sup>In the day of prosperity be joyful, and in the day of adversity consider; yea, God hath made the one side by side with the other,
to the end that man should not find out anything <i>that shall be</i> after him. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Eccl.7.15" data-parsed="Eccl_7_15_0_0" data-passage="Eccl 7.15" id="Eccl.7.15"/><sup>15</sup>All this have I seen in my days of vanity: there is a righteous man that perisheth in his righteousness, and there is a wicked man that prolongeth <i>his life</i> in his evil-doing. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Eccl.7.16" data-parsed="Eccl_7_16_0_0" data-passage="Eccl 7.16" id="Eccl.7.16"/><sup>16</sup>Be not righteous overmuch; neither make thyself overwise: why shouldest thou destroy thyself?

<span data-osisref="Bible:Eccl.7.17" data-parsed="Eccl_7_17_0_0" data-passage="Eccl 7.17" id="Eccl.7.17"/><sup>17</sup>Be not overmuch wicked, neither be thou foolish: why shouldest thou die before thy time? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Eccl.7.18" data-parsed="Eccl_7_18_0_0" data-passage="Eccl 7.18" id="Eccl.7.18"/><sup>18</sup>It is good that thou shouldest take hold of this; yea,
also from that withdraw not thy hand: for he that feareth God shall come forth from them all. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Eccl.7.19" data-parsed="Eccl_7_19_0_0" data-passage="Eccl 7.19" id="Eccl.7.19"/><sup>19</sup>Wisdom is a strength to the wise man more than ten rulers that are in a city. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Eccl.7.20" data-parsed="Eccl_7_20_0_0" data-passage="Eccl 7.20" id="Eccl.7.20"/><sup>20</sup>Surely there is not a righteous man upon earth, that doeth good, and sinneth not. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Eccl.7.21" data-parsed="Eccl_7_21_0_0" data-passage="Eccl 7.21" id="Eccl.7.21"/><sup>21</sup>Also take not heed unto all words that are spoken, lest thou hear thy servant curse thee; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Eccl.7.22" data-parsed="Eccl_7_22_0_0" data-passage="Eccl 7.22" id="Eccl.7.22"/><sup>22</sup>for oftentimes also thine own heart knoweth that thou thyself likewise hast cursed others. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Eccl.7.23" data-parsed="Eccl_7_23_0_0" data-passage="Eccl 7.23" id="Eccl.7.23"/><sup>23</sup>All this have I proved in wisdom: I said, I will be wise; but it was far from me. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Eccl.7.24" data-parsed="Eccl_7_24_0_0" data-passage="Eccl 7.24" id="Eccl.7.24"/><sup>24</sup>That which is, is far off and exceeding deep; who can find it out? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Eccl.7.25" data-parsed="Eccl_7_25_0_0" data-passage="Eccl 7.25" id="Eccl.7.25"/><sup>25</sup>I turned about, and my heart <i>was set</i>
to know and to search out, and to seek wisdom and the reason <i>of things</i>, and to know that wickedness is folly, and that foolishness is madness. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Eccl.7.26" data-parsed="Eccl_7_26_0_0" data-passage="Eccl 7.26" id="Eccl.7.26"/><sup>26</sup>And I find more bitter than death the woman whose heart is snares and nets, <i>and</i> whose hands are bands: whoso pleaseth God shall escape from her; but the sinner shall be taken by her. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Eccl.7.27" data-parsed="Eccl_7_27_0_0" data-passage="Eccl 7.27" id="Eccl.7.27"/><sup>27</sup>Behold, this have I found, saith the Preacher, <i>laying</i> one thing to another, to find out the account; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Eccl.7.28" data-parsed="Eccl_7_28_0_0" data-passage="Eccl 7.28" id="Eccl.7.28"/><sup>28</sup>which my soul still seeketh, but I have not found: one man among a thousand have I found; but a woman among all those have I not found. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Eccl.7.29" data-parsed="Eccl_7_29_0_0" data-passage="Eccl 7.29" id="Eccl.7.29"/><sup>29</sup>Behold, this only have I found: that God made man upright; but they have sought out many inventions.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>