<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Ephesians 5</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Ephesians 5</span></div><div data-next="Eph.6" data-prev="Eph.4" data-progress="94.58%" data-shorttitle="" id="Eph.5" title="Ephesians 5">
<h2 id="Eph.5-p0.1">5</h2>
<p id="Eph.5-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Eph.5.1" data-parsed="Eph_5_1_0_0" data-passage="Eph 5.1" id="Eph.5.1"/><sup>1</sup>Be ye therefore imitators of God, as beloved children; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Eph.5.2" data-parsed="Eph_5_2_0_0" data-passage="Eph 5.2" id="Eph.5.2"/><sup>2</sup>and walk in love, even as Christ also loved you, and gave himself up for us, an offering and a sacrifice to God for an odor of a sweet smell. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Eph.5.3" data-parsed="Eph_5_3_0_0" data-passage="Eph 5.3" id="Eph.5.3"/><sup>3</sup>But fornication,
and all uncleanness, or covetousness, let it not even be named among you, as becometh saints; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Eph.5.4" data-parsed="Eph_5_4_0_0" data-passage="Eph 5.4" id="Eph.5.4"/><sup>4</sup>nor filthiness, nor foolish talking, or jesting, which are not befitting: but rather giving of thanks. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Eph.5.5" data-parsed="Eph_5_5_0_0" data-passage="Eph 5.5" id="Eph.5.5"/><sup>5</sup>For this ye know of a surety, that no fornicator, nor unclean person, nor covetous man, who is an idolater, hath any inheritance in the kingdom of Christ and God. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Eph.5.6" data-parsed="Eph_5_6_0_0" data-passage="Eph 5.6" id="Eph.5.6"/><sup>6</sup>Let no man deceive you with empty words: for because of these things cometh the wrath of God upon the sons of disobedience. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Eph.5.7" data-parsed="Eph_5_7_0_0" data-passage="Eph 5.7" id="Eph.5.7"/><sup>7</sup>Be not ye therefore partakers with them; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Eph.5.8" data-parsed="Eph_5_8_0_0" data-passage="Eph 5.8" id="Eph.5.8"/><sup>8</sup>For ye were once darkness, but are now light in the Lord: walk as children of light 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Eph.5.9" data-parsed="Eph_5_9_0_0" data-passage="Eph 5.9" id="Eph.5.9"/><sup>9</sup>(for the fruit of the light is in all goodness and righteousness and truth), 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Eph.5.10" data-parsed="Eph_5_10_0_0" data-passage="Eph 5.10" id="Eph.5.10"/><sup>10</sup>proving what is well-pleasing unto the Lord; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Eph.5.11" data-parsed="Eph_5_11_0_0" data-passage="Eph 5.11" id="Eph.5.11"/><sup>11</sup>and have no fellowship with the unfruitful works of darkness, but rather even reprove them; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Eph.5.12" data-parsed="Eph_5_12_0_0" data-passage="Eph 5.12" id="Eph.5.12"/><sup>12</sup>for the things which are done by them in secret it is a shame even to speak of. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Eph.5.13" data-parsed="Eph_5_13_0_0" data-passage="Eph 5.13" id="Eph.5.13"/><sup>13</sup>But all things when they are reproved are made manifest by the light: for everything that is made manifest is light. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Eph.5.14" data-parsed="Eph_5_14_0_0" data-passage="Eph 5.14" id="Eph.5.14"/><sup>14</sup>Wherefore <i>he</i> saith, Awake, thou that sleepest, and arise from the dead, and Christ shall shine upon thee.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Eph.5.15" data-parsed="Eph_5_15_0_0" data-passage="Eph 5.15" id="Eph.5.15"/><sup>15</sup>Look therefore carefully how ye walk, not as unwise, but as wise;

<span data-osisref="Bible:Eph.5.16" data-parsed="Eph_5_16_0_0" data-passage="Eph 5.16" id="Eph.5.16"/><sup>16</sup>redeeming the time, because the days are evil. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Eph.5.17" data-parsed="Eph_5_17_0_0" data-passage="Eph 5.17" id="Eph.5.17"/><sup>17</sup>Wherefore be ye not foolish, but understand what the will of the Lord is. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Eph.5.18" data-parsed="Eph_5_18_0_0" data-passage="Eph 5.18" id="Eph.5.18"/><sup>18</sup>And be not drunken with wine, wherein is riot, but be filled with the Spirit;

<span data-osisref="Bible:Eph.5.19" data-parsed="Eph_5_19_0_0" data-passage="Eph 5.19" id="Eph.5.19"/><sup>19</sup>speaking one to another in psalms and hymns and spiritual songs,
singing and making melody with your heart to the Lord; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Eph.5.20" data-parsed="Eph_5_20_0_0" data-passage="Eph 5.20" id="Eph.5.20"/><sup>20</sup>giving thanks always for all things in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ to God, even the Father; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Eph.5.21" data-parsed="Eph_5_21_0_0" data-passage="Eph 5.21" id="Eph.5.21"/><sup>21</sup>subjecting yourselves one to another in the fear of Christ.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Eph.5.22" data-parsed="Eph_5_22_0_0" data-passage="Eph 5.22" id="Eph.5.22"/><sup>22</sup>Wives, <i>be in subjection</i> unto your own husbands, as unto the Lord. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Eph.5.23" data-parsed="Eph_5_23_0_0" data-passage="Eph 5.23" id="Eph.5.23"/><sup>23</sup>For the husband is the head of the wife, and Christ also is the head of the church, <i>being</i> himself the saviour of the body. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Eph.5.24" data-parsed="Eph_5_24_0_0" data-passage="Eph 5.24" id="Eph.5.24"/><sup>24</sup>But as the church is subject to Christ, so <i>let</i> the wives also <i>be</i>
to their husbands in everything. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Eph.5.25" data-parsed="Eph_5_25_0_0" data-passage="Eph 5.25" id="Eph.5.25"/><sup>25</sup>Husbands, love your wives, even as Christ also loved the church, and gave himself up for it; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Eph.5.26" data-parsed="Eph_5_26_0_0" data-passage="Eph 5.26" id="Eph.5.26"/><sup>26</sup>that he might sanctify it, having cleansed it by the washing of water with the word,

<span data-osisref="Bible:Eph.5.27" data-parsed="Eph_5_27_0_0" data-passage="Eph 5.27" id="Eph.5.27"/><sup>27</sup>that he might present the church to himself a glorious <i>church</i>,
not having spot or wrinkle or any such thing; but that it should be holy and without blemish. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Eph.5.28" data-parsed="Eph_5_28_0_0" data-passage="Eph 5.28" id="Eph.5.28"/><sup>28</sup>Even so ought husbands also to love their own wives as their own bodies. He that loveth his own wife loveth himself: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Eph.5.29" data-parsed="Eph_5_29_0_0" data-passage="Eph 5.29" id="Eph.5.29"/><sup>29</sup>for no man ever hated his own flesh; but nourisheth and cherisheth it, even as Christ also the church; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Eph.5.30" data-parsed="Eph_5_30_0_0" data-passage="Eph 5.30" id="Eph.5.30"/><sup>30</sup>because we are members of his body. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Eph.5.31" data-parsed="Eph_5_31_0_0" data-passage="Eph 5.31" id="Eph.5.31"/><sup>31</sup>For this cause shall a man leave his father and mother, and shall cleave to his wife; and the two shall become one flesh. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Eph.5.32" data-parsed="Eph_5_32_0_0" data-passage="Eph 5.32" id="Eph.5.32"/><sup>32</sup>This mystery is great: but I speak in regard of Christ and of the church. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Eph.5.33" data-parsed="Eph_5_33_0_0" data-passage="Eph 5.33" id="Eph.5.33"/><sup>33</sup>Nevertheless do ye also severally love each one his own wife even as himself; and <i>let</i> the wife <i>see</i> that she fear her husband.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>