<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Ephesians 6</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Ephesians 6</span></div><div data-next="Phil" data-prev="Eph.5" data-progress="94.65%" data-shorttitle="" id="Eph.6" title="Ephesians 6">
<h2 id="Eph.6-p0.1">6</h2>
<p id="Eph.6-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Eph.6.1" data-parsed="Eph_6_1_0_0" data-passage="Eph 6.1" id="Eph.6.1"/><sup>1</sup>Children, obey your parents in the Lord: for this is right.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Eph.6.2" data-parsed="Eph_6_2_0_0" data-passage="Eph 6.2" id="Eph.6.2"/><sup>2</sup>Honor thy father and mother (which is the first commandment with promise), 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Eph.6.3" data-parsed="Eph_6_3_0_0" data-passage="Eph 6.3" id="Eph.6.3"/><sup>3</sup>that it may be well with thee, and thou mayest live long on the earth. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Eph.6.4" data-parsed="Eph_6_4_0_0" data-passage="Eph 6.4" id="Eph.6.4"/><sup>4</sup>And, ye fathers, provoke not your children to wrath: but nurture them in the chastening and admonition of the Lord. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Eph.6.5" data-parsed="Eph_6_5_0_0" data-passage="Eph 6.5" id="Eph.6.5"/><sup>5</sup>Servants, be obedient unto them that according to the flesh are your masters, with fear and trembling, in singleness of your heart, as unto Christ; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Eph.6.6" data-parsed="Eph_6_6_0_0" data-passage="Eph 6.6" id="Eph.6.6"/><sup>6</sup>not in the way of eyeservice, as men-pleasers; but as servants of Christ, doing the will of God from the heart; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Eph.6.7" data-parsed="Eph_6_7_0_0" data-passage="Eph 6.7" id="Eph.6.7"/><sup>7</sup>with good will doing service, as unto the Lord,
and not unto men: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Eph.6.8" data-parsed="Eph_6_8_0_0" data-passage="Eph 6.8" id="Eph.6.8"/><sup>8</sup>knowing that whatsoever good thing each one doeth, the same shall he receive again from the Lord, whether <i>he be</i> bond or free. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Eph.6.9" data-parsed="Eph_6_9_0_0" data-passage="Eph 6.9" id="Eph.6.9"/><sup>9</sup>And, ye masters, do the same things unto them, and forbear threatening: knowing that he who is both their Master and yours is in heaven,
and there is no respect of persons with him. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Eph.6.10" data-parsed="Eph_6_10_0_0" data-passage="Eph 6.10" id="Eph.6.10"/><sup>10</sup>Finally, be strong in the Lord, and in the strength of his might. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Eph.6.11" data-parsed="Eph_6_11_0_0" data-passage="Eph 6.11" id="Eph.6.11"/><sup>11</sup>Put on the whole armor of God,
that ye may be able to stand against the wiles of the devil. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Eph.6.12" data-parsed="Eph_6_12_0_0" data-passage="Eph 6.12" id="Eph.6.12"/><sup>12</sup>For our wrestling is not against flesh and blood, but against the principalities,
against the powers, against the world-rulers of this darkness, against the spiritual <i>hosts</i> of wickedness in the heavenly <i>places</i>.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Eph.6.13" data-parsed="Eph_6_13_0_0" data-passage="Eph 6.13" id="Eph.6.13"/><sup>13</sup>Wherefore take up the whole armor of God, that ye may be able to withstand in the evil day, and, having done all, to stand. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Eph.6.14" data-parsed="Eph_6_14_0_0" data-passage="Eph 6.14" id="Eph.6.14"/><sup>14</sup>Stand therefore, having girded your loins with truth, and having put on the breastplate of righteousness, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Eph.6.15" data-parsed="Eph_6_15_0_0" data-passage="Eph 6.15" id="Eph.6.15"/><sup>15</sup>and having shod your feet with the preparation of the gospel of peace; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Eph.6.16" data-parsed="Eph_6_16_0_0" data-passage="Eph 6.16" id="Eph.6.16"/><sup>16</sup>withal taking up the shield of faith, wherewith ye shall be able to quench all the fiery darts of the evil <i>one</i>. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Eph.6.17" data-parsed="Eph_6_17_0_0" data-passage="Eph 6.17" id="Eph.6.17"/><sup>17</sup>And take the helmet of salvation, and the sword of the Spirit, which is the word of God: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Eph.6.18" data-parsed="Eph_6_18_0_0" data-passage="Eph 6.18" id="Eph.6.18"/><sup>18</sup>with all prayer and supplication praying at all seasons in the Spirit, and watching thereunto in all perseverance and supplication for all the saints, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Eph.6.19" data-parsed="Eph_6_19_0_0" data-passage="Eph 6.19" id="Eph.6.19"/><sup>19</sup>And on my behalf,
that utterance may be given unto me in opening my mouth, to make known with boldness the mystery of the gospel, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Eph.6.20" data-parsed="Eph_6_20_0_0" data-passage="Eph 6.20" id="Eph.6.20"/><sup>20</sup>for which I am an ambassador in chains; that in it I may speak boldly, as I ought to speak. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Eph.6.21" data-parsed="Eph_6_21_0_0" data-passage="Eph 6.21" id="Eph.6.21"/><sup>21</sup>But that ye also may know my affairs, how I do, Tychicus, the beloved brother and faithful minister in the Lord, shall make known to you all things: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Eph.6.22" data-parsed="Eph_6_22_0_0" data-passage="Eph 6.22" id="Eph.6.22"/><sup>22</sup>whom I have sent unto you for this very purpose, that ye may know our state, and that he may comfort your hearts. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Eph.6.23" data-parsed="Eph_6_23_0_0" data-passage="Eph 6.23" id="Eph.6.23"/><sup>23</sup>Peace be to the brethren, and love with faith, from God the Father and the Lord Jesus Christ. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Eph.6.24" data-parsed="Eph_6_24_0_0" data-passage="Eph 6.24" id="Eph.6.24"/><sup>24</sup>Grace be with all them that love our Lord Jesus Christ with <i>a love</i>
incorruptible.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>