<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Exodus 9</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Exodus 9</span></div><div data-next="Exod.10" data-prev="Exod.8" data-progress="6.46%" data-shorttitle="" id="Exod.9" title="Exodus 9">
<h2 id="Exod.9-p0.1">9</h2>
<p id="Exod.9-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.9.1" data-parsed="Exod_9_1_0_0" data-passage="Exod 9.1" id="Exod.9.1"/><sup>1</sup>Then Jehovah said unto Moses, Go in unto Pharaoh, and tell him,
Thus saith Jehovah, the God of the Hebrews, Let my people go, that they may serve me. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.9.2" data-parsed="Exod_9_2_0_0" data-passage="Exod 9.2" id="Exod.9.2"/><sup>2</sup>For if thou refuse to let them go, and wilt hold them still,

<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.9.3" data-parsed="Exod_9_3_0_0" data-passage="Exod 9.3" id="Exod.9.3"/><sup>3</sup>behold, the hand of Jehovah is upon thy cattle which are in the field,
upon the horses, upon the asses, upon the camels, upon the herds, and upon the flocks: <i>there shall be</i> a very grievous murrain. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.9.4" data-parsed="Exod_9_4_0_0" data-passage="Exod 9.4" id="Exod.9.4"/><sup>4</sup>And Jehovah shall make a distinction between the cattle of Israel and the cattle of Egypt; and there shall nothing die of all that belongeth to the children of Israel. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.9.5" data-parsed="Exod_9_5_0_0" data-passage="Exod 9.5" id="Exod.9.5"/><sup>5</sup>And Jehovah appointed a set time, saying, To-morrow Jehovah shall do this thing in the land. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.9.6" data-parsed="Exod_9_6_0_0" data-passage="Exod 9.6" id="Exod.9.6"/><sup>6</sup>And Jehovah did that thing on the morrow; and all the cattle of Egypt died; but of the cattle of the children of Israel died not one. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.9.7" data-parsed="Exod_9_7_0_0" data-passage="Exod 9.7" id="Exod.9.7"/><sup>7</sup>And Pharaoh sent, and, behold, there was not so much as one of the cattle of the Israelites dead. But the heart of Pharaoh was stubborn, and he did not let the people go.</p>
<p id="Exod.9-p2">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.9.8" data-parsed="Exod_9_8_0_0" data-passage="Exod 9.8" id="Exod.9.8"/><sup>8</sup>And Jehovah said unto Moses and unto Aaron, Take to you handfuls of ashes of the furnace, and let Moses sprinkle it toward heaven in the sight of Pharaoh. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.9.9" data-parsed="Exod_9_9_0_0" data-passage="Exod 9.9" id="Exod.9.9"/><sup>9</sup>And it shall become small dust over all the land of Egypt, and shall be a boil breaking forth with blains upon man and upon beast,
throughout all the land of Egypt. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.9.10" data-parsed="Exod_9_10_0_0" data-passage="Exod 9.10" id="Exod.9.10"/><sup>10</sup>And they took ashes of the furnace,
and stood before Pharaoh; and Moses sprinkled it up toward heaven; and it became a boil breaking forth with blains upon man and upon beast. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.9.11" data-parsed="Exod_9_11_0_0" data-passage="Exod 9.11" id="Exod.9.11"/><sup>11</sup>And the magicians could not stand before Moses because of the boils; for the boils were upon the magicians, and upon all the Egyptians. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.9.12" data-parsed="Exod_9_12_0_0" data-passage="Exod 9.12" id="Exod.9.12"/><sup>12</sup>And Jehovah hardened the heart of Pharaoh, and he hearkened not unto them, as Jehovah had spoken unto Moses. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.9.13" data-parsed="Exod_9_13_0_0" data-passage="Exod 9.13" id="Exod.9.13"/><sup>13</sup>And Jehovah said unto Moses, Rise up early in the morning, and stand before Pharaoh, and say unto him, Thus saith Jehovah, the God of the Hebrews, Let my people go, that they may serve me. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.9.14" data-parsed="Exod_9_14_0_0" data-passage="Exod 9.14" id="Exod.9.14"/><sup>14</sup>For I will this time send all my plagues upon thy heart, and upon thy servants, and upon thy people; that thou mayest know that there is none like me in all the earth. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.9.15" data-parsed="Exod_9_15_0_0" data-passage="Exod 9.15" id="Exod.9.15"/><sup>15</sup>For now I had put forth my hand, and smitten thee and thy people with pestilence, and thou hadst been cut off from the earth: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.9.16" data-parsed="Exod_9_16_0_0" data-passage="Exod 9.16" id="Exod.9.16"/><sup>16</sup>but in very deed for this cause have I made thee to stand, to show thee my power,
and that my name may be declared throughout all the earth. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.9.17" data-parsed="Exod_9_17_0_0" data-passage="Exod 9.17" id="Exod.9.17"/><sup>17</sup>As yet exaltest thou thyself against my people, that thou wilt not let them go?

<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.9.18" data-parsed="Exod_9_18_0_0" data-passage="Exod 9.18" id="Exod.9.18"/><sup>18</sup>Behold, to-morrow about this time I will cause it to rain a very grievous hail, such as hath not been in Egypt since the day it was founded even until now. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.9.19" data-parsed="Exod_9_19_0_0" data-passage="Exod 9.19" id="Exod.9.19"/><sup>19</sup>Now therefore send, hasten in thy cattle and all that thou hast in the field; <i>for</i> every man and beast that shall be found in the field, and shall not be brought home, the hail shall come down upon them, and they shall die. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.9.20" data-parsed="Exod_9_20_0_0" data-passage="Exod 9.20" id="Exod.9.20"/><sup>20</sup>He that feared the word of Jehovah among the servants of Pharaoh made his servants and his cattle flee into the houses.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.9.21" data-parsed="Exod_9_21_0_0" data-passage="Exod 9.21" id="Exod.9.21"/><sup>21</sup>And he that regarded not the word of Jehovah left his servants and his cattle in the field.</p>
<p id="Exod.9-p3">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.9.22" data-parsed="Exod_9_22_0_0" data-passage="Exod 9.22" id="Exod.9.22"/><sup>22</sup>And Jehovah said unto Moses, Stretch forth thy hand toward heaven, that there may be hail in all the land of Egypt, upon man, and upon beast, and upon every herb of the field, throughout the land of Egypt. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.9.23" data-parsed="Exod_9_23_0_0" data-passage="Exod 9.23" id="Exod.9.23"/><sup>23</sup>And Moses stretched forth his rod toward heaven: and Jehovah sent thunder and hail, and fire ran down unto the earth; and Jehovah rained hail upon the land of Egypt.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.9.24" data-parsed="Exod_9_24_0_0" data-passage="Exod 9.24" id="Exod.9.24"/><sup>24</sup>So there was hail, and fire mingled with the hail, very grievous, such as had not been in all the land of Egypt since it became a nation. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.9.25" data-parsed="Exod_9_25_0_0" data-passage="Exod 9.25" id="Exod.9.25"/><sup>25</sup>And the hail smote throughout all the land of Egypt all that was in the field,
both man and beast; and the hail smote every herb of the field, and brake every tree of the field. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.9.26" data-parsed="Exod_9_26_0_0" data-passage="Exod 9.26" id="Exod.9.26"/><sup>26</sup>Only in the land of Goshen, where the children of Israel were, was there no hail.</p>
<p id="Exod.9-p4">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.9.27" data-parsed="Exod_9_27_0_0" data-passage="Exod 9.27" id="Exod.9.27"/><sup>27</sup>And Pharaoh sent, and called for Moses and Aaron, and said unto them, I have sinned this time: Jehovah is righteous, and I and my people are wicked.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.9.28" data-parsed="Exod_9_28_0_0" data-passage="Exod 9.28" id="Exod.9.28"/><sup>28</sup>Entreat Jehovah; for there hath been enough of <i>these</i> mighty thunderings and hail; and I will let you go, and ye shall stay no longer.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.9.29" data-parsed="Exod_9_29_0_0" data-passage="Exod 9.29" id="Exod.9.29"/><sup>29</sup>And Moses said unto him, As soon as I am gone out of the city, I will spread abroad my hands unto Jehovah; the thunders shall cease, neither shall there be any more hail; that thou mayest know that the earth is Jehovah's.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.9.30" data-parsed="Exod_9_30_0_0" data-passage="Exod 9.30" id="Exod.9.30"/><sup>30</sup>But as for thee and thy servants, I know that ye will not yet fear Jehovah God. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.9.31" data-parsed="Exod_9_31_0_0" data-passage="Exod 9.31" id="Exod.9.31"/><sup>31</sup>And the flax and the barley were smitten: for the barley was in the ear, and the flax was in bloom. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.9.32" data-parsed="Exod_9_32_0_0" data-passage="Exod 9.32" id="Exod.9.32"/><sup>32</sup>But the wheat and the spelt were not smitten: for they were not grown up. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.9.33" data-parsed="Exod_9_33_0_0" data-passage="Exod 9.33" id="Exod.9.33"/><sup>33</sup>And Moses went out of the city from Pharaoh, and spread abroad his hands unto Jehovah: and the thunders and hail ceased, and the rain was not poured upon the earth. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.9.34" data-parsed="Exod_9_34_0_0" data-passage="Exod 9.34" id="Exod.9.34"/><sup>34</sup>And when Pharaoh saw that the rain and the hail and the thunders were ceased, he sinned yet more, and hardened his heart, he and his servants. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.9.35" data-parsed="Exod_9_35_0_0" data-passage="Exod 9.35" id="Exod.9.35"/><sup>35</sup>And the heart of Pharaoh was hardened, and he did not let the children of Israel go,
as Jehovah had spoken by Moses.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>