<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Exodus 20</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Exodus 20</span></div><div data-next="Exod.21" data-prev="Exod.19" data-progress="7.55%" data-shorttitle="" id="Exod.20" title="Exodus 20">
<h2 id="Exod.20-p0.1">20</h2>
<p id="Exod.20-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.20.1" data-parsed="Exod_20_1_0_0" data-passage="Exod 20.1" id="Exod.20.1"/><sup>1</sup>And God spake all these words, saying, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.20.2" data-parsed="Exod_20_2_0_0" data-passage="Exod 20.2" id="Exod.20.2"/><sup>2</sup>I am Jehovah thy God,
who brought thee out of the land of Egypt, out of the house of bondage.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.20.3" data-parsed="Exod_20_3_0_0" data-passage="Exod 20.3" id="Exod.20.3"/><sup>3</sup>Thou shalt have no other gods before me.</p>
<p id="Exod.20-p2">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.20.4" data-parsed="Exod_20_4_0_0" data-passage="Exod 20.4" id="Exod.20.4"/><sup>4</sup>Thou shalt not make unto thee a graven image, nor any likeness <i>of any thing</i> that is in heaven above, or that is in the earth beneath, or that is in the water under the earth. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.20.5" data-parsed="Exod_20_5_0_0" data-passage="Exod 20.5" id="Exod.20.5"/><sup>5</sup>Thou shalt not bow down thyself unto them, nor serve them, for I Jehovah thy God am a jealous God, visiting the iniquity of the fathers upon the children, upon the third and upon the fourth generation of them that hate me, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.20.6" data-parsed="Exod_20_6_0_0" data-passage="Exod 20.6" id="Exod.20.6"/><sup>6</sup>and showing lovingkindness unto thousands of them that love me and keep my commandments.</p>
<p id="Exod.20-p3">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.20.7" data-parsed="Exod_20_7_0_0" data-passage="Exod 20.7" id="Exod.20.7"/><sup>7</sup>Thou shalt not take the name of Jehovah thy God in vain; for Jehovah will not hold him guiltless that taketh his name in vain.</p>
<p id="Exod.20-p4">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.20.8" data-parsed="Exod_20_8_0_0" data-passage="Exod 20.8" id="Exod.20.8"/><sup>8</sup>Remember the sabbath day, to keep it holy. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.20.9" data-parsed="Exod_20_9_0_0" data-passage="Exod 20.9" id="Exod.20.9"/><sup>9</sup>Six days shalt thou labor, and do all thy work; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.20.10" data-parsed="Exod_20_10_0_0" data-passage="Exod 20.10" id="Exod.20.10"/><sup>10</sup>but the seventh day is a sabbath unto Jehovah thy God: <i>in it</i> thou shalt not do any work, thou, nor thy son,
nor thy daughter, thy man-servant, nor thy maid-servant, nor thy cattle, nor thy stranger that is within thy gates: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.20.11" data-parsed="Exod_20_11_0_0" data-passage="Exod 20.11" id="Exod.20.11"/><sup>11</sup>for in six days Jehovah made heaven and earth, the sea, and all that in them is, and rested the seventh day: wherefore Jehovah blessed the sabbath day, and hallowed it.</p>
<p id="Exod.20-p5">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.20.12" data-parsed="Exod_20_12_0_0" data-passage="Exod 20.12" id="Exod.20.12"/><sup>12</sup>Honor thy father and thy mother, that thy days may be long in the land which Jehovah thy God giveth thee.</p>
<p id="Exod.20-p6">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.20.13" data-parsed="Exod_20_13_0_0" data-passage="Exod 20.13" id="Exod.20.13"/><sup>13</sup>Thou shalt not kill.</p>
<p id="Exod.20-p7">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.20.14" data-parsed="Exod_20_14_0_0" data-passage="Exod 20.14" id="Exod.20.14"/><sup>14</sup>Thou shalt not commit adultery.</p>
<p id="Exod.20-p8">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.20.15" data-parsed="Exod_20_15_0_0" data-passage="Exod 20.15" id="Exod.20.15"/><sup>15</sup>Thou shalt not steal.</p>
<p id="Exod.20-p9">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.20.16" data-parsed="Exod_20_16_0_0" data-passage="Exod 20.16" id="Exod.20.16"/><sup>16</sup>Thou shalt not bear false witness against thy neighbor.</p>
<p id="Exod.20-p10">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.20.17" data-parsed="Exod_20_17_0_0" data-passage="Exod 20.17" id="Exod.20.17"/><sup>17</sup>Thou shalt not covet thy neighbor's house, thou shalt not covet thy neighbor's wife, nor his man-servant, nor his maid-servant, nor his ox, nor his ass, nor anything that is thy neighbor's.</p>
<p id="Exod.20-p11">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.20.18" data-parsed="Exod_20_18_0_0" data-passage="Exod 20.18" id="Exod.20.18"/><sup>18</sup>And all the people perceived the thunderings, and the lightnings, and the voice of the trumpet, and the mountain smoking: and when the people saw it, they trembled, and stood afar off. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.20.19" data-parsed="Exod_20_19_0_0" data-passage="Exod 20.19" id="Exod.20.19"/><sup>19</sup>And they said unto Moses, Speak thou with us, and we will hear; but let not God speak with us, lest we die.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.20.20" data-parsed="Exod_20_20_0_0" data-passage="Exod 20.20" id="Exod.20.20"/><sup>20</sup>And Moses said unto the people, Fear not: for God is come to prove you,
and that his fear may be before you, that ye sin not. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.20.21" data-parsed="Exod_20_21_0_0" data-passage="Exod 20.21" id="Exod.20.21"/><sup>21</sup>And the people stood afar off, and Moses drew near unto the thick darkness where God was.</p>
<p id="Exod.20-p12">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.20.22" data-parsed="Exod_20_22_0_0" data-passage="Exod 20.22" id="Exod.20.22"/><sup>22</sup>And Jehovah said unto Moses, Thus thou shalt say unto the children of Israel, Ye yourselves have seen that I have talked with you from heaven.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.20.23" data-parsed="Exod_20_23_0_0" data-passage="Exod 20.23" id="Exod.20.23"/><sup>23</sup>Ye shall not make <i>other gods</i> with me; gods of silver, or gods of gold, ye shall not make unto you. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.20.24" data-parsed="Exod_20_24_0_0" data-passage="Exod 20.24" id="Exod.20.24"/><sup>24</sup>An altar of earth thou shalt make unto me, and shalt sacrifice thereon thy burnt-offerings, and thy peace-offerings, thy sheep, and thine oxen: in every place where I record my name I will come unto thee and I will bless thee. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.20.25" data-parsed="Exod_20_25_0_0" data-passage="Exod 20.25" id="Exod.20.25"/><sup>25</sup>And if thou make me an altar of stone, thou shalt not build it of hewn stones; for if thou lift up thy tool upon it, thou hast polluted it. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.20.26" data-parsed="Exod_20_26_0_0" data-passage="Exod 20.26" id="Exod.20.26"/><sup>26</sup>Neither shalt thou go up by steps unto mine altar, that thy nakedness be not uncovered thereon.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>