<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Exodus 25</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Exodus 25</span></div><div data-next="Exod.26" data-prev="Exod.24" data-progress="7.98%" data-shorttitle="" id="Exod.25" title="Exodus 25">
<h2 id="Exod.25-p0.1">25</h2>
<p id="Exod.25-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.25.1" data-parsed="Exod_25_1_0_0" data-passage="Exod 25.1" id="Exod.25.1"/><sup>1</sup>And Jehovah spake unto Moses, saying, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.25.2" data-parsed="Exod_25_2_0_0" data-passage="Exod 25.2" id="Exod.25.2"/><sup>2</sup>Speak unto the children of Israel, that they take for me an offering: of every man whose heart maketh him willing ye shall take my offering. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.25.3" data-parsed="Exod_25_3_0_0" data-passage="Exod 25.3" id="Exod.25.3"/><sup>3</sup>And this is the offering which ye shall take of them: gold, and silver, and brass, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.25.4" data-parsed="Exod_25_4_0_0" data-passage="Exod 25.4" id="Exod.25.4"/><sup>4</sup>and blue, and purple,
and scarlet, and fine linen, and goats' <i>hair</i>, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.25.5" data-parsed="Exod_25_5_0_0" data-passage="Exod 25.5" id="Exod.25.5"/><sup>5</sup>and rams' skins dyed red, and sealskins, and acacia wood, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.25.6" data-parsed="Exod_25_6_0_0" data-passage="Exod 25.6" id="Exod.25.6"/><sup>6</sup>oil for the light, spices for the anointing oil, and for the sweet incense, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.25.7" data-parsed="Exod_25_7_0_0" data-passage="Exod 25.7" id="Exod.25.7"/><sup>7</sup>onyx stones, and stones to be set, for the ephod, and for the breastplate. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.25.8" data-parsed="Exod_25_8_0_0" data-passage="Exod 25.8" id="Exod.25.8"/><sup>8</sup>And let them make me a sanctuary, that I may dwell among them. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.25.9" data-parsed="Exod_25_9_0_0" data-passage="Exod 25.9" id="Exod.25.9"/><sup>9</sup>According to all that I show thee, the pattern of the tabernacle, and the pattern of all the furniture thereof, even so shall ye make it.</p>
<p id="Exod.25-p2">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.25.10" data-parsed="Exod_25_10_0_0" data-passage="Exod 25.10" id="Exod.25.10"/><sup>10</sup>And they shall make an ark of acacia wood: two cubits and a half shall be the length thereof, and a cubit and a half the breadth thereof, and a cubit and a half the height thereof. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.25.11" data-parsed="Exod_25_11_0_0" data-passage="Exod 25.11" id="Exod.25.11"/><sup>11</sup>And thou shalt overlay it with pure gold, within and without shalt thou overlay it, and shalt make upon it a crown of gold round about. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.25.12" data-parsed="Exod_25_12_0_0" data-passage="Exod 25.12" id="Exod.25.12"/><sup>12</sup>And thou shalt cast four rings of gold for it, and put them in the four feet thereof; and two rings shall be on the one side of it, and two rings on the other side of it. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.25.13" data-parsed="Exod_25_13_0_0" data-passage="Exod 25.13" id="Exod.25.13"/><sup>13</sup>And thou shalt make staves of acacia wood, and overlay them with gold. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.25.14" data-parsed="Exod_25_14_0_0" data-passage="Exod 25.14" id="Exod.25.14"/><sup>14</sup>And thou shalt put the staves into the rings on the sides of the ark, wherewith to bear the ark.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.25.15" data-parsed="Exod_25_15_0_0" data-passage="Exod 25.15" id="Exod.25.15"/><sup>15</sup>The staves shall be in the rings of the ark: they shall not be taken from it. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.25.16" data-parsed="Exod_25_16_0_0" data-passage="Exod 25.16" id="Exod.25.16"/><sup>16</sup>And thou shalt put into the ark the testimony which I shall give thee. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.25.17" data-parsed="Exod_25_17_0_0" data-passage="Exod 25.17" id="Exod.25.17"/><sup>17</sup>And thou shalt make a mercy-seat of pure gold: two cubits and a half <i>shall be</i> the length thereof, and a cubit and a half the breadth thereof. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.25.18" data-parsed="Exod_25_18_0_0" data-passage="Exod 25.18" id="Exod.25.18"/><sup>18</sup>And thou shalt make two cherubim of gold; of beaten work shalt thou make them, at the two ends of the mercy-seat. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.25.19" data-parsed="Exod_25_19_0_0" data-passage="Exod 25.19" id="Exod.25.19"/><sup>19</sup>And make one cherub at the one end, and one cherub at the other end: of one piece with the mercy-seat shall ye make the cherubim on the two ends thereof. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.25.20" data-parsed="Exod_25_20_0_0" data-passage="Exod 25.20" id="Exod.25.20"/><sup>20</sup>And the cherubim shall spread out their wings on high, covering the mercy-seat with their wings, with their faces one to another; toward the mercy-seat shall the faces of the cherubim be. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.25.21" data-parsed="Exod_25_21_0_0" data-passage="Exod 25.21" id="Exod.25.21"/><sup>21</sup>And thou shalt put the mercy-seat above upon the ark; and in the ark thou shalt put the testimony that I shall give thee. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.25.22" data-parsed="Exod_25_22_0_0" data-passage="Exod 25.22" id="Exod.25.22"/><sup>22</sup>And there I will meet with thee, and I will commune with thee from above the mercy-seat, from between the two cherubim which are upon the ark of the testimony, of all things which I will give thee in commandment unto the children of Israel.</p>
<p id="Exod.25-p3">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.25.23" data-parsed="Exod_25_23_0_0" data-passage="Exod 25.23" id="Exod.25.23"/><sup>23</sup>And thou shalt make a table of acacia wood: two cubits <i>shall be</i>
the length thereof, and a cubit the breadth thereof, and a cubit and a half the height thereof. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.25.24" data-parsed="Exod_25_24_0_0" data-passage="Exod 25.24" id="Exod.25.24"/><sup>24</sup>And thou shalt overlay it with pure gold, and make thereto a crown of gold round about. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.25.25" data-parsed="Exod_25_25_0_0" data-passage="Exod 25.25" id="Exod.25.25"/><sup>25</sup>And thou shalt make unto it a border of a handbreadth round about; and thou shalt make a golden crown to the border thereof round about. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.25.26" data-parsed="Exod_25_26_0_0" data-passage="Exod 25.26" id="Exod.25.26"/><sup>26</sup>And thou shalt make for it four rings of gold, and put the rings in the four corners that are on the four feet thereof. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.25.27" data-parsed="Exod_25_27_0_0" data-passage="Exod 25.27" id="Exod.25.27"/><sup>27</sup>Close by the border shall the rings be, for places for the staves to bear the table. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.25.28" data-parsed="Exod_25_28_0_0" data-passage="Exod 25.28" id="Exod.25.28"/><sup>28</sup>And thou shalt make the staves of acacia wood, and overlay them with gold, that the table may be borne with them.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.25.29" data-parsed="Exod_25_29_0_0" data-passage="Exod 25.29" id="Exod.25.29"/><sup>29</sup>And thou shalt make the dishes thereof, and the spoons thereof, and the flagons thereof, and the bowls thereof, wherewith to pour out: of pure gold shalt thou make them. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.25.30" data-parsed="Exod_25_30_0_0" data-passage="Exod 25.30" id="Exod.25.30"/><sup>30</sup>And thou shalt set upon the table showbread before me alway.</p>
<p id="Exod.25-p4">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.25.31" data-parsed="Exod_25_31_0_0" data-passage="Exod 25.31" id="Exod.25.31"/><sup>31</sup>And thou shalt make a candlestick of pure gold: of beaten work shall the candlestick be made, even its base, and its shaft; its cups, its knops,
and its flowers, shall be of one piece with it. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.25.32" data-parsed="Exod_25_32_0_0" data-passage="Exod 25.32" id="Exod.25.32"/><sup>32</sup>And there shall be six branches going out of the sides thereof; three branches of the candlestick out of the one side thereof, and three branches of the candlestick out of the other side thereof: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.25.33" data-parsed="Exod_25_33_0_0" data-passage="Exod 25.33" id="Exod.25.33"/><sup>33</sup>three cups made like almond-blossoms in one branch,
a knop and a flower; and three cups made like almond-blossoms in the other branch, a knop and a flower: so for the six branches going out of the candlestick: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.25.34" data-parsed="Exod_25_34_0_0" data-passage="Exod 25.34" id="Exod.25.34"/><sup>34</sup>and in the candlestick four cups made like almond-blossoms, the knops thereof, and the flowers thereof; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.25.35" data-parsed="Exod_25_35_0_0" data-passage="Exod 25.35" id="Exod.25.35"/><sup>35</sup>and a knop under two branches of one piece with it, and a knop under two branches of one piece with it, and a knop under two branches of one piece with it, for the six branches going out of the candlestick. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.25.36" data-parsed="Exod_25_36_0_0" data-passage="Exod 25.36" id="Exod.25.36"/><sup>36</sup>Their knops and their branches shall be of one piece with it; the whole of it one beaten work of pure gold. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.25.37" data-parsed="Exod_25_37_0_0" data-passage="Exod 25.37" id="Exod.25.37"/><sup>37</sup>And thou shalt make the lamps thereof, seven: and they shall light the lamps thereof, to give light over against it. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.25.38" data-parsed="Exod_25_38_0_0" data-passage="Exod 25.38" id="Exod.25.38"/><sup>38</sup>And the snuffers thereof, and the snuffdishes thereof, shall be of pure gold.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.25.39" data-parsed="Exod_25_39_0_0" data-passage="Exod 25.39" id="Exod.25.39"/><sup>39</sup>Of a talent of pure gold shall it be made, with all these vessels.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.25.40" data-parsed="Exod_25_40_0_0" data-passage="Exod 25.40" id="Exod.25.40"/><sup>40</sup>And see that thou make them after their pattern, which hath been showed thee in the mount.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>