<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Exodus 29</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Exodus 29</span></div><div data-next="Exod.30" data-prev="Exod.28" data-progress="8.44%" data-shorttitle="" id="Exod.29" title="Exodus 29">
<h2 id="Exod.29-p0.1">29</h2>
<p id="Exod.29-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.29.1" data-parsed="Exod_29_1_0_0" data-passage="Exod 29.1" id="Exod.29.1"/><sup>1</sup>And this is the thing that thou shalt do unto them to hallow them,
to minister unto me in the priest's office: take one young bullock and two rams without blemish, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.29.2" data-parsed="Exod_29_2_0_0" data-passage="Exod 29.2" id="Exod.29.2"/><sup>2</sup>and unleavened bread, and cakes unleavened mingled with oil, and wafers unleavened anointed with oil: of fine wheaten flour shalt thou make them. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.29.3" data-parsed="Exod_29_3_0_0" data-passage="Exod 29.3" id="Exod.29.3"/><sup>3</sup>And thou shalt put them into one basket, and bring them in the basket, with the bullock and the two rams. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.29.4" data-parsed="Exod_29_4_0_0" data-passage="Exod 29.4" id="Exod.29.4"/><sup>4</sup>And Aaron and his sons thou shalt bring unto the door of the tent of meeting, and shalt wash them with water. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.29.5" data-parsed="Exod_29_5_0_0" data-passage="Exod 29.5" id="Exod.29.5"/><sup>5</sup>And thou shalt take the garments, and put upon Aaron the coat, and the robe of the ephod, and the ephod, and the breastplate, and gird him with the skilfully woven band of the ephod; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.29.6" data-parsed="Exod_29_6_0_0" data-passage="Exod 29.6" id="Exod.29.6"/><sup>6</sup>and thou shalt set the mitre upon his head, and put the holy crown upon the mitre. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.29.7" data-parsed="Exod_29_7_0_0" data-passage="Exod 29.7" id="Exod.29.7"/><sup>7</sup>Then shalt thou take the anointing oil, and pour it upon his head, and anoint him.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.29.8" data-parsed="Exod_29_8_0_0" data-passage="Exod 29.8" id="Exod.29.8"/><sup>8</sup>And thou shalt bring his sons, and put coats upon them. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.29.9" data-parsed="Exod_29_9_0_0" data-passage="Exod 29.9" id="Exod.29.9"/><sup>9</sup>And thou shalt gird them with girdles, Aaron and his sons, and bind head-tires on them: and they shall have the priesthood by a perpetual statute: and thou shalt consecrate Aaron and his sons.</p>
<p id="Exod.29-p2">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.29.10" data-parsed="Exod_29_10_0_0" data-passage="Exod 29.10" id="Exod.29.10"/><sup>10</sup>And thou shalt bring the bullock before the tent of meeting: and Aaron and his sons shall lay their hands upon the head of the bullock. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.29.11" data-parsed="Exod_29_11_0_0" data-passage="Exod 29.11" id="Exod.29.11"/><sup>11</sup>And thou shalt kill the bullock before Jehovah, at the door of the tent of meeting. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.29.12" data-parsed="Exod_29_12_0_0" data-passage="Exod 29.12" id="Exod.29.12"/><sup>12</sup>And thou shalt take of the blood of the bullock, and put it upon the horns of the altar with thy finger; and thou shalt pour out all the blood at the base of the altar. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.29.13" data-parsed="Exod_29_13_0_0" data-passage="Exod 29.13" id="Exod.29.13"/><sup>13</sup>And thou shalt take all the fat that covereth the inwards, and the caul upon the liver, and the two kidneys, and the fat that is upon them, and burn them upon the altar. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.29.14" data-parsed="Exod_29_14_0_0" data-passage="Exod 29.14" id="Exod.29.14"/><sup>14</sup>But the flesh of the bullock, and its skin, and it dung, shalt thou burn with fire without the camp: it is a sin-offering.</p>
<p id="Exod.29-p3">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.29.15" data-parsed="Exod_29_15_0_0" data-passage="Exod 29.15" id="Exod.29.15"/><sup>15</sup>Thou shalt also take the one ram; and Aaron and his sons shall lay their hands upon the head of the ram. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.29.16" data-parsed="Exod_29_16_0_0" data-passage="Exod 29.16" id="Exod.29.16"/><sup>16</sup>And thou shalt slay the ram, and thou shalt take its blood, and sprinkle it round about upon the altar.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.29.17" data-parsed="Exod_29_17_0_0" data-passage="Exod 29.17" id="Exod.29.17"/><sup>17</sup>And thou shalt cut the ram into its pieces, and wash its inwards, and its legs, and put them with its pieces, and with its head. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.29.18" data-parsed="Exod_29_18_0_0" data-passage="Exod 29.18" id="Exod.29.18"/><sup>18</sup>And thou shalt burn the whole ram upon the altar: it is a burnt-offering unto Jehovah;
it is a sweet savor, an offering made by fire unto Jehovah.</p>
<p id="Exod.29-p4">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.29.19" data-parsed="Exod_29_19_0_0" data-passage="Exod 29.19" id="Exod.29.19"/><sup>19</sup>And thou shalt take the other ram; and Aaron and his sons shall lay their hands upon the head of the ram. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.29.20" data-parsed="Exod_29_20_0_0" data-passage="Exod 29.20" id="Exod.29.20"/><sup>20</sup>Then shalt thou kill the ram, and take of its blood, and put it upon the tip of the right ear of Aaron, and upon the tip of the right ear of his sons, and upon the thumb of their right hand, and upon the great toe of their right foot, and sprinkle the blood upon the altar round about. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.29.21" data-parsed="Exod_29_21_0_0" data-passage="Exod 29.21" id="Exod.29.21"/><sup>21</sup>And thou shalt take of the blood that is upon the altar, and of the anointing oil, and sprinkle it upon Aaron, and upon his garments, and upon his sons, and upon the garments of his sons with him: and he shall be hallowed, and his garments, and his sons, and his sons' garments with him. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.29.22" data-parsed="Exod_29_22_0_0" data-passage="Exod 29.22" id="Exod.29.22"/><sup>22</sup>Also thou shalt take of the ram the fat, and the fat tail,
and the fat that covereth the inwards, and the caul of the liver, and the two kidneys, and the fat that is upon them, and the right thigh (for it is a ram of consecration), 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.29.23" data-parsed="Exod_29_23_0_0" data-passage="Exod 29.23" id="Exod.29.23"/><sup>23</sup>and one loaf of bread, and one cake of oiled bread,
and one wafer, out of the basket of unleavened bread that is before Jehovah.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.29.24" data-parsed="Exod_29_24_0_0" data-passage="Exod 29.24" id="Exod.29.24"/><sup>24</sup>And thou shalt put the whole upon the hands of Aaron, and upon the hands of his sons, and shalt wave them for a wave-offering before Jehovah.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.29.25" data-parsed="Exod_29_25_0_0" data-passage="Exod 29.25" id="Exod.29.25"/><sup>25</sup>And thou shalt take them from their hands, and burn them on the altar upon the burnt-offering, for a sweet savor before Jehovah: it is an offering made by fire unto Jehovah.</p>
<p id="Exod.29-p5">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.29.26" data-parsed="Exod_29_26_0_0" data-passage="Exod 29.26" id="Exod.29.26"/><sup>26</sup>And thou shalt take the breast of Aaron's ram of consecration, and wave it for a wave-offering before Jehovah: and it shall be thy portion. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.29.27" data-parsed="Exod_29_27_0_0" data-passage="Exod 29.27" id="Exod.29.27"/><sup>27</sup>And thou shalt sanctify the breast of the wave-offering, and the thigh of the heave-offering, which is waved, and which is heaved up, of the ram of consecration, even of that which is for Aaron, and of that which is for his sons: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.29.28" data-parsed="Exod_29_28_0_0" data-passage="Exod 29.28" id="Exod.29.28"/><sup>28</sup>and it shall be for Aaron and his sons as <i>their</i> portion for ever from the children of Israel; for it is a heave-offering: and it shall be a heave-offering from the children of Israel of the sacrifices of their peace-offerings, even their heave-offering unto Jehovah.</p>
<p id="Exod.29-p6">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.29.29" data-parsed="Exod_29_29_0_0" data-passage="Exod 29.29" id="Exod.29.29"/><sup>29</sup>And the holy garments of Aaron shall be for his sons after him, to be anointed in them, and to be consecrated in them. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.29.30" data-parsed="Exod_29_30_0_0" data-passage="Exod 29.30" id="Exod.29.30"/><sup>30</sup>Seven days shall the son that is priest in his stead put them on, when he cometh into the tent of meeting to minister in the holy place.</p>
<p id="Exod.29-p7">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.29.31" data-parsed="Exod_29_31_0_0" data-passage="Exod 29.31" id="Exod.29.31"/><sup>31</sup>And thou shalt take the ram of consecration, and boil its flesh in a holy place. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.29.32" data-parsed="Exod_29_32_0_0" data-passage="Exod 29.32" id="Exod.29.32"/><sup>32</sup>And Aaron and his sons shall eat the flesh of the ram, and the bread that is in the basket, at the door of the tent of meeting.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.29.33" data-parsed="Exod_29_33_0_0" data-passage="Exod 29.33" id="Exod.29.33"/><sup>33</sup>And they shall eat those things wherewith atonement was made, to consecrate <i>and</i> to sanctify them: but a stranger shall not eat thereof, because they are holy. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.29.34" data-parsed="Exod_29_34_0_0" data-passage="Exod 29.34" id="Exod.29.34"/><sup>34</sup>And if aught of the flesh of the consecration, or of the bread, remain unto the morning, then thou shalt burn the remainder with fire: it shall not be eaten, because it is holy.</p>
<p id="Exod.29-p8">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.29.35" data-parsed="Exod_29_35_0_0" data-passage="Exod 29.35" id="Exod.29.35"/><sup>35</sup>And thus shalt thou do unto Aaron, and to his sons, according to all that I have commanded thee: seven days shalt thou consecrate them. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.29.36" data-parsed="Exod_29_36_0_0" data-passage="Exod 29.36" id="Exod.29.36"/><sup>36</sup>And every day shalt thou offer the bullock of sin-offering for atonement: and thou shalt cleanse the altar, when thou makest atonement for it; and thou shalt anoint it, to sanctify it. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.29.37" data-parsed="Exod_29_37_0_0" data-passage="Exod 29.37" id="Exod.29.37"/><sup>37</sup>Seven days thou shalt make atonement for the altar, and sanctify it: and the altar shall be most holy; whatsoever toucheth the altar shall be holy.</p>
<p id="Exod.29-p9">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.29.38" data-parsed="Exod_29_38_0_0" data-passage="Exod 29.38" id="Exod.29.38"/><sup>38</sup>Now this is that which thou shalt offer upon the altar: two lambs a year old day by day continually. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.29.39" data-parsed="Exod_29_39_0_0" data-passage="Exod 29.39" id="Exod.29.39"/><sup>39</sup>The one lamb thou shalt offer in the morning; and the other lamb thou shalt offer at even: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.29.40" data-parsed="Exod_29_40_0_0" data-passage="Exod 29.40" id="Exod.29.40"/><sup>40</sup>and with the one lamb a tenth part <i>of an ephah</i> of fine flour mingled with the fourth part of a hin of beaten oil, and the fourth part of a hin of wine for a drink-offering. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.29.41" data-parsed="Exod_29_41_0_0" data-passage="Exod 29.41" id="Exod.29.41"/><sup>41</sup>And the other lamb thou shalt offer at even, and shalt do thereto according to the meal-offering of the morning, and according to the drink-offering thereof, for a sweet savor, an offering made by fire unto Jehovah. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.29.42" data-parsed="Exod_29_42_0_0" data-passage="Exod 29.42" id="Exod.29.42"/><sup>42</sup>It shall be a continual burnt-offering throughout your generations at the door of the tent of meeting before Jehovah, where I will meet with you, to speak there unto thee. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.29.43" data-parsed="Exod_29_43_0_0" data-passage="Exod 29.43" id="Exod.29.43"/><sup>43</sup>And there I will meet with the children of Israel; and <i>the Tent</i> shall be sanctified by my glory.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.29.44" data-parsed="Exod_29_44_0_0" data-passage="Exod 29.44" id="Exod.29.44"/><sup>44</sup>And I will sanctify the tent of meeting, and the altar: Aaron also and his sons will I sanctify, to minister to me in the priest's office. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.29.45" data-parsed="Exod_29_45_0_0" data-passage="Exod 29.45" id="Exod.29.45"/><sup>45</sup>And I will dwell among the children of Israel, and will be their God. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.29.46" data-parsed="Exod_29_46_0_0" data-passage="Exod 29.46" id="Exod.29.46"/><sup>46</sup>And they shall know that I am Jehovah their God, that brought them forth out of the land of Egypt, that I might dwell among them: I am Jehovah their God.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>