<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Exodus 2</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Exodus 2</span></div><div data-next="Exod.3" data-prev="Exod.1" data-progress="5.82%" data-shorttitle="" id="Exod.2" title="Exodus 2">
<h2 id="Exod.2-p0.1">2</h2>
<p id="Exod.2-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.2.1" data-parsed="Exod_2_1_0_0" data-passage="Exod 2.1" id="Exod.2.1"/><sup>1</sup>And there went a man of the house of Levi, and took to wife a daughter of Levi. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.2.2" data-parsed="Exod_2_2_0_0" data-passage="Exod 2.2" id="Exod.2.2"/><sup>2</sup>And the woman conceived, and bare a son: and when she saw him that he was a goodly child, she hid him three months. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.2.3" data-parsed="Exod_2_3_0_0" data-passage="Exod 2.3" id="Exod.2.3"/><sup>3</sup>And when she could not longer hide him, she took for him an ark of bulrushes, and daubed it with slime and with pitch; and she put the child therein, and laid it in the flags by the river's brink. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.2.4" data-parsed="Exod_2_4_0_0" data-passage="Exod 2.4" id="Exod.2.4"/><sup>4</sup>And his sister stood afar off, to know what would be done to him. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.2.5" data-parsed="Exod_2_5_0_0" data-passage="Exod 2.5" id="Exod.2.5"/><sup>5</sup>And the daughter of Pharaoh came down to bathe at the river; and her maidens walked along by the river-side; and she saw the ark among the flags, and sent her handmaid to fetch it. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.2.6" data-parsed="Exod_2_6_0_0" data-passage="Exod 2.6" id="Exod.2.6"/><sup>6</sup>And she opened it, and saw the child: and, behold, the babe wept. And she had compassion on him, and said, This is one of the Hebrews' children. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.2.7" data-parsed="Exod_2_7_0_0" data-passage="Exod 2.7" id="Exod.2.7"/><sup>7</sup>Then said his sister to Pharaoh's daughter, Shall I go and call thee a nurse of the Hebrew women, that she may nurse the child for thee? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.2.8" data-parsed="Exod_2_8_0_0" data-passage="Exod 2.8" id="Exod.2.8"/><sup>8</sup>And Pharaoh's daughter said to her, Go. And the maiden went and called the child's mother.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.2.9" data-parsed="Exod_2_9_0_0" data-passage="Exod 2.9" id="Exod.2.9"/><sup>9</sup>And Pharaoh's daughter said unto her, Take this child away, and nurse it for me, and I will give thee thy wages. And the woman took the child, and nursed it. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.2.10" data-parsed="Exod_2_10_0_0" data-passage="Exod 2.10" id="Exod.2.10"/><sup>10</sup>And the child grew, and she brought him unto Pharaoh's daughter, and he became her son. And she called his name Moses, and said,
Because I drew him out of the water.</p>
<p id="Exod.2-p2">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.2.11" data-parsed="Exod_2_11_0_0" data-passage="Exod 2.11" id="Exod.2.11"/><sup>11</sup>And it came to pass in those days, when Moses was grown up, that he went out unto his brethren, and looked on their burdens: and he saw an Egyptian smiting a Hebrew, one of his brethren. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.2.12" data-parsed="Exod_2_12_0_0" data-passage="Exod 2.12" id="Exod.2.12"/><sup>12</sup>And he looked this way and that way, and when he saw that there was no man, he smote the Egyptian,
and hid him in the sand. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.2.13" data-parsed="Exod_2_13_0_0" data-passage="Exod 2.13" id="Exod.2.13"/><sup>13</sup>And he went out the second day, and, behold,
two men of the Hebrews were striving together: and he said to him that did the wrong, Wherefore smitest thou thy fellow? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.2.14" data-parsed="Exod_2_14_0_0" data-passage="Exod 2.14" id="Exod.2.14"/><sup>14</sup>And he said, Who made thee a prince and a judge over us? Thinkest thou to kill me, as thou killedst the Egyptian? And Moses feared, and said, Surely the thing is known.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.2.15" data-parsed="Exod_2_15_0_0" data-passage="Exod 2.15" id="Exod.2.15"/><sup>15</sup>Now when Pharaoh heard this thing, he sought to slay Moses. But Moses fled from the face of Pharaoh, and dwelt in the land of Midian: and he sat down by a well.</p>
<p id="Exod.2-p3">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.2.16" data-parsed="Exod_2_16_0_0" data-passage="Exod 2.16" id="Exod.2.16"/><sup>16</sup>Now the priest of Midian had seven daughters: and they came and drew water, and filled the troughs to water their father's flock. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.2.17" data-parsed="Exod_2_17_0_0" data-passage="Exod 2.17" id="Exod.2.17"/><sup>17</sup>And the shepherds came and drove them away; but Moses stood up and helped them, and watered their flock. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.2.18" data-parsed="Exod_2_18_0_0" data-passage="Exod 2.18" id="Exod.2.18"/><sup>18</sup>And when they came to Reuel their father, he said,
How is it that ye are come so soon to-day? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.2.19" data-parsed="Exod_2_19_0_0" data-passage="Exod 2.19" id="Exod.2.19"/><sup>19</sup>And they said, An Egyptian delivered us out of the hand of the shepherds, and moreover he drew water for us, and watered the flock. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.2.20" data-parsed="Exod_2_20_0_0" data-passage="Exod 2.20" id="Exod.2.20"/><sup>20</sup>And he said unto his daughters, And where is he? Why is it that ye have left the man? Call him, that he may eat bread.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.2.21" data-parsed="Exod_2_21_0_0" data-passage="Exod 2.21" id="Exod.2.21"/><sup>21</sup>And Moses was content to dwell with the man: and he gave Moses Zipporah his daughter. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.2.22" data-parsed="Exod_2_22_0_0" data-passage="Exod 2.22" id="Exod.2.22"/><sup>22</sup>And she bare a son, and he called his name Gershom; for he said, I have been a sojourner in a foreign land.</p>
<p id="Exod.2-p4">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.2.23" data-parsed="Exod_2_23_0_0" data-passage="Exod 2.23" id="Exod.2.23"/><sup>23</sup>And it came to pass in the course of those many days, that the king of Egypt died: and the children of Israel sighed by reason of the bondage, and they cried, and their cry came up unto God by reason of the bondage.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.2.24" data-parsed="Exod_2_24_0_0" data-passage="Exod 2.24" id="Exod.2.24"/><sup>24</sup>And God heard their groaning, and God remembered his covenant with Abraham, with Isaac, and with Jacob. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.2.25" data-parsed="Exod_2_25_0_0" data-passage="Exod 2.25" id="Exod.2.25"/><sup>25</sup>And God saw the children of Israel, and God took knowledge <i>of them</i>.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>