<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Exodus 33</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Exodus 33</span></div><div data-next="Exod.34" data-prev="Exod.32" data-progress="8.91%" data-shorttitle="" id="Exod.33" title="Exodus 33">
<h2 id="Exod.33-p0.1">33</h2>
<p id="Exod.33-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.33.1" data-parsed="Exod_33_1_0_0" data-passage="Exod 33.1" id="Exod.33.1"/><sup>1</sup>And Jehovah spake unto Moses, Depart, go up hence, thou and the people that thou hast brought up out of the land of Egypt, unto the land of which I sware unto Abraham, to Isaac, and to Jacob, saying, Unto thy seed will I give it: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.33.2" data-parsed="Exod_33_2_0_0" data-passage="Exod 33.2" id="Exod.33.2"/><sup>2</sup>and I will send an angel before thee; and I will drive out the Canaanite, the Amorite, and the Hittite, and the Perizzite, the Hivite, and the Jebusite: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.33.3" data-parsed="Exod_33_3_0_0" data-passage="Exod 33.3" id="Exod.33.3"/><sup>3</sup>unto a land flowing with milk and honey: for I will not go up in the midst of thee, for thou art a stiffnecked people, lest I consume thee in the way. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.33.4" data-parsed="Exod_33_4_0_0" data-passage="Exod 33.4" id="Exod.33.4"/><sup>4</sup>And when the people heard these evil tidings,
they mourned: and no man did put on him his ornaments. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.33.5" data-parsed="Exod_33_5_0_0" data-passage="Exod 33.5" id="Exod.33.5"/><sup>5</sup>And Jehovah said unto Moses, Say unto the children of Israel, Ye are a stiffnecked people; if I go up into the midst of thee for one moment, I shall consume thee:
therefore now put off thy ornaments from thee, that I may know what to do unto thee. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.33.6" data-parsed="Exod_33_6_0_0" data-passage="Exod 33.6" id="Exod.33.6"/><sup>6</sup>And the children of Israel stripped themselves of their ornaments from mount Horeb onward.</p>
<p id="Exod.33-p2">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.33.7" data-parsed="Exod_33_7_0_0" data-passage="Exod 33.7" id="Exod.33.7"/><sup>7</sup>Now Moses used to take the tent and to pitch it without the camp, afar off from the camp; and he called it, The tent of meeting. And it came to pass, that every one that sought Jehovah went out unto the tent of meeting,
which was without the camp. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.33.8" data-parsed="Exod_33_8_0_0" data-passage="Exod 33.8" id="Exod.33.8"/><sup>8</sup>And it came to pass, when Moses went out unto the Tent, that all the people rose up, and stood, every man at his tent door, and looked after Moses, until he was gone into the Tent. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.33.9" data-parsed="Exod_33_9_0_0" data-passage="Exod 33.9" id="Exod.33.9"/><sup>9</sup>And it came to pass, when Moses entered into the Tent, the pillar of cloud descended, and stood at the door of the Tent: and <i>Jehovah</i> spake with Moses. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.33.10" data-parsed="Exod_33_10_0_0" data-passage="Exod 33.10" id="Exod.33.10"/><sup>10</sup>And all the people saw the pillar of cloud stand at the door of the Tent: and all the people rose up and worshipped, every man at his tent door. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.33.11" data-parsed="Exod_33_11_0_0" data-passage="Exod 33.11" id="Exod.33.11"/><sup>11</sup>And Jehovah spake unto Moses face to face, as a man speaketh unto his friend. And he turned again into the camp: but his minister Joshua, the son of Nun, a young man, departed not out of the Tent.</p>
<p id="Exod.33-p3">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.33.12" data-parsed="Exod_33_12_0_0" data-passage="Exod 33.12" id="Exod.33.12"/><sup>12</sup>And Moses said unto Jehovah, See, thou sayest unto me, Bring up this people: and thou hast not let me know whom thou wilt send with me. Yet thou hast said, I know thee by name, and thou hast also found favor in my sight.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.33.13" data-parsed="Exod_33_13_0_0" data-passage="Exod 33.13" id="Exod.33.13"/><sup>13</sup>Now therefore, I pray thee, if I have found favor in thy sight, show me now thy ways, that I may know thee, to the end that I may find favor in thy sight: and consider that this nation is thy people. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.33.14" data-parsed="Exod_33_14_0_0" data-passage="Exod 33.14" id="Exod.33.14"/><sup>14</sup>And he said, My presence shall go <i>with thee</i>, and I will give thee rest. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.33.15" data-parsed="Exod_33_15_0_0" data-passage="Exod 33.15" id="Exod.33.15"/><sup>15</sup>And he said unto him, If thy presence go not <i>with me</i>, carry us not up hence.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.33.16" data-parsed="Exod_33_16_0_0" data-passage="Exod 33.16" id="Exod.33.16"/><sup>16</sup>For wherein now shall it be known that I have found favor in thy sight,
I and thy people? is it not in that thou goest with us, so that we are separated, I and thy people, from all the people that are upon the face of the earth?</p>
<p id="Exod.33-p4">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.33.17" data-parsed="Exod_33_17_0_0" data-passage="Exod 33.17" id="Exod.33.17"/><sup>17</sup>And Jehovah said unto Moses, I will do this thing also that thou hast spoken; for thou hast found favor in my sight, and I know thee by name.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.33.18" data-parsed="Exod_33_18_0_0" data-passage="Exod 33.18" id="Exod.33.18"/><sup>18</sup>And he said, Show me, I pray thee, thy glory. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.33.19" data-parsed="Exod_33_19_0_0" data-passage="Exod 33.19" id="Exod.33.19"/><sup>19</sup>And he said, I will make all my goodness pass before thee, and will proclaim the name of Jehovah before thee; and I will be gracious to whom I will be gracious, and will show mercy on whom I will show mercy. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.33.20" data-parsed="Exod_33_20_0_0" data-passage="Exod 33.20" id="Exod.33.20"/><sup>20</sup>And he said, Thou canst not see my face; for man shall not see me and live. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.33.21" data-parsed="Exod_33_21_0_0" data-passage="Exod 33.21" id="Exod.33.21"/><sup>21</sup>and Jehovah said, Behold,
there is a place by me, and thou shalt stand upon the rock: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.33.22" data-parsed="Exod_33_22_0_0" data-passage="Exod 33.22" id="Exod.33.22"/><sup>22</sup>and it shall come to pass, while my glory passeth by, that I will put thee in a cleft of the rock, and will cover thee with my hand until I have passed by:

<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.33.23" data-parsed="Exod_33_23_0_0" data-passage="Exod 33.23" id="Exod.33.23"/><sup>23</sup>and I will take away my hand, and thou shalt see my back; but my face shall not be seen.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>