<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Exodus 21</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Exodus 21</span></div><div data-next="Exod.22" data-prev="Exod.20" data-progress="7.62%" data-shorttitle="" id="Exod.21" title="Exodus 21">
<h2 id="Exod.21-p0.1">21</h2>
<p id="Exod.21-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.21.1" data-parsed="Exod_21_1_0_0" data-passage="Exod 21.1" id="Exod.21.1"/><sup>1</sup>Now these are the ordinances which thou shalt set before them.</p>
<p id="Exod.21-p2">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.21.2" data-parsed="Exod_21_2_0_0" data-passage="Exod 21.2" id="Exod.21.2"/><sup>2</sup>If thou buy a Hebrew servant, six years he shall serve: and in the seventh he shall go out free for nothing. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.21.3" data-parsed="Exod_21_3_0_0" data-passage="Exod 21.3" id="Exod.21.3"/><sup>3</sup>If he come in by himself, he shall go out by himself: if he be married, then his wife shall go out with him. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.21.4" data-parsed="Exod_21_4_0_0" data-passage="Exod 21.4" id="Exod.21.4"/><sup>4</sup>If his master give him a wife and she bear him sons or daughters;
the wife and her children shall be her master's, and he shall go out by himself. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.21.5" data-parsed="Exod_21_5_0_0" data-passage="Exod 21.5" id="Exod.21.5"/><sup>5</sup>But if the servant shall plainly say, I love my master, my wife, and my children; I will not go out free: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.21.6" data-parsed="Exod_21_6_0_0" data-passage="Exod 21.6" id="Exod.21.6"/><sup>6</sup>then his master shall bring him unto God, and shall bring him to the door, or unto the door-post;
and his master shall bore his ear through with an awl; and he shall serve him for ever.</p>
<p id="Exod.21-p3">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.21.7" data-parsed="Exod_21_7_0_0" data-passage="Exod 21.7" id="Exod.21.7"/><sup>7</sup>And if a man sell his daughter to be a maid-servant, she shall not go out as the men-servants do. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.21.8" data-parsed="Exod_21_8_0_0" data-passage="Exod 21.8" id="Exod.21.8"/><sup>8</sup>If she please not her master, who hath espoused her to himself, then shall he let her be redeemed: to sell her unto a foreign people he shall have no power, seeing he hath dealt deceitfully with her. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.21.9" data-parsed="Exod_21_9_0_0" data-passage="Exod 21.9" id="Exod.21.9"/><sup>9</sup>And if he espouse her unto his son, he shall deal with her after the manner of daughters. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.21.10" data-parsed="Exod_21_10_0_0" data-passage="Exod 21.10" id="Exod.21.10"/><sup>10</sup>If he take him another <i>wife</i>; her food, her raiment, and her duty of marriage, shall he not diminish. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.21.11" data-parsed="Exod_21_11_0_0" data-passage="Exod 21.11" id="Exod.21.11"/><sup>11</sup>And if he do not these three things unto her, then shall she go out for nothing,
without money.</p>
<p id="Exod.21-p4">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.21.12" data-parsed="Exod_21_12_0_0" data-passage="Exod 21.12" id="Exod.21.12"/><sup>12</sup>He that smiteth a man, so that he dieth, shall surely be put to death.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.21.13" data-parsed="Exod_21_13_0_0" data-passage="Exod 21.13" id="Exod.21.13"/><sup>13</sup>And if a man lie not in wait, but God deliver <i>him</i> into his hand; then I will appoint thee a place whither he shall flee. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.21.14" data-parsed="Exod_21_14_0_0" data-passage="Exod 21.14" id="Exod.21.14"/><sup>14</sup>And if a man come presumptuously upon his neighbor, to slay him with guile; thou shalt take him from mine altar, that he may die.</p>
<p id="Exod.21-p5">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.21.15" data-parsed="Exod_21_15_0_0" data-passage="Exod 21.15" id="Exod.21.15"/><sup>15</sup>And he that smiteth his father, or his mother, shall be surely put to death.</p>
<p id="Exod.21-p6">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.21.16" data-parsed="Exod_21_16_0_0" data-passage="Exod 21.16" id="Exod.21.16"/><sup>16</sup>And he that stealeth a man, and selleth him, or if he be found in his hand, he shall surely be put to death.</p>
<p id="Exod.21-p7">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.21.17" data-parsed="Exod_21_17_0_0" data-passage="Exod 21.17" id="Exod.21.17"/><sup>17</sup>And he that curseth his father or his mother, shall surely be put to death.</p>
<p id="Exod.21-p8">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.21.18" data-parsed="Exod_21_18_0_0" data-passage="Exod 21.18" id="Exod.21.18"/><sup>18</sup>And if men contend, and one smite the other with a stone, or with his fist, and he die not, but keep his bed; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.21.19" data-parsed="Exod_21_19_0_0" data-passage="Exod 21.19" id="Exod.21.19"/><sup>19</sup>if he rise again, and walk abroad upon his staff, then shall he that smote him be quit: only he shall pay for the loss of his time, and shall cause him to be thoroughly healed.</p>
<p id="Exod.21-p9">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.21.20" data-parsed="Exod_21_20_0_0" data-passage="Exod 21.20" id="Exod.21.20"/><sup>20</sup>And if a man smite his servant, or his maid, with a rod, and he die under his hand; he shall surely be punished. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.21.21" data-parsed="Exod_21_21_0_0" data-passage="Exod 21.21" id="Exod.21.21"/><sup>21</sup>Notwithstanding, if he continue a day or two, he shall not be punished: for he is his money.</p>
<p id="Exod.21-p10">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.21.22" data-parsed="Exod_21_22_0_0" data-passage="Exod 21.22" id="Exod.21.22"/><sup>22</sup>And if men strive together, and hurt a woman with child, so that her fruit depart, and yet no harm follow; he shall be surely fined, according as the woman's husband shall lay upon him; and he shall pay as the judges determine. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.21.23" data-parsed="Exod_21_23_0_0" data-passage="Exod 21.23" id="Exod.21.23"/><sup>23</sup>But if any harm follow, then thou shalt give life for life,

<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.21.24" data-parsed="Exod_21_24_0_0" data-passage="Exod 21.24" id="Exod.21.24"/><sup>24</sup>eye for eye, tooth for tooth, hand for hand, foot for foot,

<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.21.25" data-parsed="Exod_21_25_0_0" data-passage="Exod 21.25" id="Exod.21.25"/><sup>25</sup>burning for burning, wound for wound, stripe for stripe.</p>
<p id="Exod.21-p11">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.21.26" data-parsed="Exod_21_26_0_0" data-passage="Exod 21.26" id="Exod.21.26"/><sup>26</sup>And if a man smite the eye of his servant, or the eye of his maid, and destroy it; he shall let him go free for his eye's sake. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.21.27" data-parsed="Exod_21_27_0_0" data-passage="Exod 21.27" id="Exod.21.27"/><sup>27</sup>And if he smite out his man-servant's tooth, or his maid-servant's tooth, he shall let him go free for his tooth's sake.</p>
<p id="Exod.21-p12">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.21.28" data-parsed="Exod_21_28_0_0" data-passage="Exod 21.28" id="Exod.21.28"/><sup>28</sup>And if an ox gore a man or a woman to death, the ox shall be surely stoned, and its flesh shall not be eaten; but the owner of the ox shall be quit. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.21.29" data-parsed="Exod_21_29_0_0" data-passage="Exod 21.29" id="Exod.21.29"/><sup>29</sup>But if the ox was wont to gore in time past, and it hath been testified to its owner, and he hath not kept it in, but it hath killed a man or a woman, the ox shall be stoned, and its owner also shall be put to death.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.21.30" data-parsed="Exod_21_30_0_0" data-passage="Exod 21.30" id="Exod.21.30"/><sup>30</sup>If there be laid on him a ransom, then he shall give for the redemption of his life whatsoever is laid upon him. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.21.31" data-parsed="Exod_21_31_0_0" data-passage="Exod 21.31" id="Exod.21.31"/><sup>31</sup>Whether it have gored a son,
or have gored a daughter, according to this judgment shall it be done unto him. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.21.32" data-parsed="Exod_21_32_0_0" data-passage="Exod 21.32" id="Exod.21.32"/><sup>32</sup>If the ox gore a man-servant or a maid-servant, there shall be given unto their master thirty shekels of silver, and the ox shall be stoned.</p>
<p id="Exod.21-p13">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.21.33" data-parsed="Exod_21_33_0_0" data-passage="Exod 21.33" id="Exod.21.33"/><sup>33</sup>And if a man shall open a pit, or if a man shall dig a pit and not cover it, and an ox or an ass fall therein, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.21.34" data-parsed="Exod_21_34_0_0" data-passage="Exod 21.34" id="Exod.21.34"/><sup>34</sup>the owner of the pit shall make it good; he shall give money unto the owner thereof, and the dead <i>beast</i> shall be his.</p>
<p id="Exod.21-p14">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.21.35" data-parsed="Exod_21_35_0_0" data-passage="Exod 21.35" id="Exod.21.35"/><sup>35</sup>And if one man's ox hurt another's, so that it dieth, then they shall sell the live ox, and divide the price of it: and the dead also they shall divide. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.21.36" data-parsed="Exod_21_36_0_0" data-passage="Exod 21.36" id="Exod.21.36"/><sup>36</sup>Or if it be known that the ox was wont to gore in time past,
and its owner hath not kept it in, he shall surely pay ox for ox, and the dead <i>beast</i> shall be his own.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>