<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Exodus 22</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Exodus 22</span></div><div data-next="Exod.23" data-prev="Exod.21" data-progress="7.73%" data-shorttitle="" id="Exod.22" title="Exodus 22">
<h2 id="Exod.22-p0.1">22</h2>
<p id="Exod.22-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.22.1" data-parsed="Exod_22_1_0_0" data-passage="Exod 22.1" id="Exod.22.1"/><sup>1</sup>If a man shall steal an ox, or a sheep, and kill it, or sell it;
he shall pay five oxen for an ox, and four sheep for a sheep. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.22.2" data-parsed="Exod_22_2_0_0" data-passage="Exod 22.2" id="Exod.22.2"/><sup>2</sup>If the thief be found breaking in, and be smitten so that he dieth, there shall be no bloodguiltiness for him. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.22.3" data-parsed="Exod_22_3_0_0" data-passage="Exod 22.3" id="Exod.22.3"/><sup>3</sup>If the sun be risen upon him, there shall be bloodguiltiness for him; he shall make restitution: if he have nothing, then he shall be sold for his theft. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.22.4" data-parsed="Exod_22_4_0_0" data-passage="Exod 22.4" id="Exod.22.4"/><sup>4</sup>If the theft be found in his hand alive,
whether it be ox, or ass, or sheep, he shall pay double.</p>
<p id="Exod.22-p2">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.22.5" data-parsed="Exod_22_5_0_0" data-passage="Exod 22.5" id="Exod.22.5"/><sup>5</sup>If a man shall cause a field or vineyard to be eaten, and shall let his beast loose, and it feed in another man's field; of the best of his own field, and of the best of his own vineyard, shall he make restitution.</p>
<p id="Exod.22-p3">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.22.6" data-parsed="Exod_22_6_0_0" data-passage="Exod 22.6" id="Exod.22.6"/><sup>6</sup>If fire break out, and catch in thorns, so that the shocks of grain, or the standing grain, or the field are consumed; he that kindled the fire shall surely make restitution.</p>
<p id="Exod.22-p4">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.22.7" data-parsed="Exod_22_7_0_0" data-passage="Exod 22.7" id="Exod.22.7"/><sup>7</sup>If a man shall deliver unto his neighbor money or stuff to keep, and it be stolen out of the man's house; if the thief be found, he shall pay double.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.22.8" data-parsed="Exod_22_8_0_0" data-passage="Exod 22.8" id="Exod.22.8"/><sup>8</sup>If the thief be not found, then the master of the house shall come near unto God, <i>to see</i> whether he have not put his hand unto his neighbor's goods. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.22.9" data-parsed="Exod_22_9_0_0" data-passage="Exod 22.9" id="Exod.22.9"/><sup>9</sup>For every matter of trespass, whether it be for ox, for ass, for sheep, for raiment, <i>or</i> for any manner of lost thing, whereof one saith, This is it, the cause of both parties shall come before God; he whom God shall condemn shall pay double unto his neighbor.</p>
<p id="Exod.22-p5">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.22.10" data-parsed="Exod_22_10_0_0" data-passage="Exod 22.10" id="Exod.22.10"/><sup>10</sup>If a man deliver unto his neighbor an ass, or an ox, or a sheep, or any beast, to keep; and it die, or be hurt, or driven away, no man seeing it:

<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.22.11" data-parsed="Exod_22_11_0_0" data-passage="Exod 22.11" id="Exod.22.11"/><sup>11</sup>the oath of Jehovah shall be between them both, whether he hath not put his hand unto his neighbor's goods; and the owner thereof shall accept it,
and he shall not make restitution. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.22.12" data-parsed="Exod_22_12_0_0" data-passage="Exod 22.12" id="Exod.22.12"/><sup>12</sup>But if it be stolen from him, he shall make restitution unto the owner thereof. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.22.13" data-parsed="Exod_22_13_0_0" data-passage="Exod 22.13" id="Exod.22.13"/><sup>13</sup>If it be torn in pieces,
let him bring it for witness: he shall not make good that which was torn.</p>
<p id="Exod.22-p6">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.22.14" data-parsed="Exod_22_14_0_0" data-passage="Exod 22.14" id="Exod.22.14"/><sup>14</sup>And if a man borrow aught of his neighbor, and it be hurt, or die, the owner thereof not being with it, he shall surely make restitution. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.22.15" data-parsed="Exod_22_15_0_0" data-passage="Exod 22.15" id="Exod.22.15"/><sup>15</sup>If the owner thereof be with it, he shall not make it good: if it be a hired thing, it came for its hire.</p>
<p id="Exod.22-p7">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.22.16" data-parsed="Exod_22_16_0_0" data-passage="Exod 22.16" id="Exod.22.16"/><sup>16</sup>And if a man entice a virgin that is not betrothed, and lie with her,
he shall surely pay a dowry for her to be his wife. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.22.17" data-parsed="Exod_22_17_0_0" data-passage="Exod 22.17" id="Exod.22.17"/><sup>17</sup>If her father utterly refuse to give her unto him, he shall pay money according to the dowry of virgins.</p>
<p id="Exod.22-p8">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.22.18" data-parsed="Exod_22_18_0_0" data-passage="Exod 22.18" id="Exod.22.18"/><sup>18</sup>Thou shalt not suffer a sorceress to live.</p>
<p id="Exod.22-p9">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.22.19" data-parsed="Exod_22_19_0_0" data-passage="Exod 22.19" id="Exod.22.19"/><sup>19</sup>Whosoever lieth with a beast shall surely be put to death.</p>
<p id="Exod.22-p10">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.22.20" data-parsed="Exod_22_20_0_0" data-passage="Exod 22.20" id="Exod.22.20"/><sup>20</sup>He that sacrificeth unto any god, save unto Jehovah only, shall be utterly destroyed. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.22.21" data-parsed="Exod_22_21_0_0" data-passage="Exod 22.21" id="Exod.22.21"/><sup>21</sup>And a sojourner shalt thou not wrong, neither shalt thou oppress him: for ye were sojourners in the land of Egypt. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.22.22" data-parsed="Exod_22_22_0_0" data-passage="Exod 22.22" id="Exod.22.22"/><sup>22</sup>Ye shall not afflict any widow, or fatherless child. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.22.23" data-parsed="Exod_22_23_0_0" data-passage="Exod 22.23" id="Exod.22.23"/><sup>23</sup>If thou afflict them at all, and they cry at all unto me, I will surely hear their cry; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.22.24" data-parsed="Exod_22_24_0_0" data-passage="Exod 22.24" id="Exod.22.24"/><sup>24</sup>and my wrath shall wax hot, and I will kill you with the sword; and your wives shall be widows, and your children fatherless.</p>
<p id="Exod.22-p11">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.22.25" data-parsed="Exod_22_25_0_0" data-passage="Exod 22.25" id="Exod.22.25"/><sup>25</sup>If thou lend money to any of my people with thee that is poor, thou shalt not be to him as a creditor; neither shall ye lay upon him interest.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.22.26" data-parsed="Exod_22_26_0_0" data-passage="Exod 22.26" id="Exod.22.26"/><sup>26</sup>If thou at all take thy neighbor's garment to pledge, thou shalt restore it unto him before the sun goeth down: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.22.27" data-parsed="Exod_22_27_0_0" data-passage="Exod 22.27" id="Exod.22.27"/><sup>27</sup>for that is his only covering, it is his garment for his skin: wherein shall he sleep? And it shall come to pass, when he crieth unto me, that I will hear; for I am gracious.</p>
<p id="Exod.22-p12">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.22.28" data-parsed="Exod_22_28_0_0" data-passage="Exod 22.28" id="Exod.22.28"/><sup>28</sup>Thou shalt not revile God, nor curse a ruler of thy people. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.22.29" data-parsed="Exod_22_29_0_0" data-passage="Exod 22.29" id="Exod.22.29"/><sup>29</sup>Thou shalt not delay to offer of thy harvest, and of the outflow of thy presses.
The first-born of thy sons shalt thou give unto me. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.22.30" data-parsed="Exod_22_30_0_0" data-passage="Exod 22.30" id="Exod.22.30"/><sup>30</sup>Likewise shalt thou do with thine oxen, <i>and</i> with thy sheep: seven days it shall be with its dam; on the eighth day thou shalt give it me. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.22.31" data-parsed="Exod_22_31_0_0" data-passage="Exod 22.31" id="Exod.22.31"/><sup>31</sup>And ye shall be holy men unto me: therefore ye shall not eat any flesh that is torn of beasts in the field; ye shall cast it to the dogs.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>