<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Exodus 5</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Exodus 5</span></div><div data-next="Exod.6" data-prev="Exod.4" data-progress="6.09%" data-shorttitle="" id="Exod.5" title="Exodus 5">
<h2 id="Exod.5-p0.1">5</h2>
<p id="Exod.5-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.5.1" data-parsed="Exod_5_1_0_0" data-passage="Exod 5.1" id="Exod.5.1"/><sup>1</sup>And afterward Moses and Aaron came, and said unto Pharaoh, Thus saith Jehovah, the God of Israel, Let my people go, that they may hold a feast unto me in the wilderness. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.5.2" data-parsed="Exod_5_2_0_0" data-passage="Exod 5.2" id="Exod.5.2"/><sup>2</sup>And Pharaoh said, Who is Jehovah, that I should hearken unto his voice to let Israel go? I know not Jehovah, and moreover I will not let Israel go. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.5.3" data-parsed="Exod_5_3_0_0" data-passage="Exod 5.3" id="Exod.5.3"/><sup>3</sup>And they said, The God of the Hebrews hath met with us: let us go, we pray thee, three days' journey into the wilderness,
and sacrifice unto Jehovah our God, lest he fall upon us with pestilence, or with the sword. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.5.4" data-parsed="Exod_5_4_0_0" data-passage="Exod 5.4" id="Exod.5.4"/><sup>4</sup>And the king of Egypt said unto them, Wherefore do ye,
Moses and Aaron, loose the people from their works? get you unto your burdens. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.5.5" data-parsed="Exod_5_5_0_0" data-passage="Exod 5.5" id="Exod.5.5"/><sup>5</sup>And Pharaoh said, Behold, the people of the land are now many,
and ye make them rest from their burdens. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.5.6" data-parsed="Exod_5_6_0_0" data-passage="Exod 5.6" id="Exod.5.6"/><sup>6</sup>And the same day Pharaoh commanded the taskmasters of the people, and their officers, saying, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.5.7" data-parsed="Exod_5_7_0_0" data-passage="Exod 5.7" id="Exod.5.7"/><sup>7</sup>Ye shall no more give the people straw to make brick, as heretofore: let them go and gather straw for themselves. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.5.8" data-parsed="Exod_5_8_0_0" data-passage="Exod 5.8" id="Exod.5.8"/><sup>8</sup>And the number of the bricks, which they did make heretofore, ye shall lay upon them; ye shall not diminish aught thereof: for they are idle; therefore they cry, saying, Let us go and sacrifice to our God. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.5.9" data-parsed="Exod_5_9_0_0" data-passage="Exod 5.9" id="Exod.5.9"/><sup>9</sup>Let heavier work be laid upon the men, that they may labor therein; and let them not regard lying words.</p>
<p id="Exod.5-p2">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.5.10" data-parsed="Exod_5_10_0_0" data-passage="Exod 5.10" id="Exod.5.10"/><sup>10</sup>And the taskmasters of the people went out, and their officers, and they spake to the people, saying, Thus saith Pharaoh, I will not give you straw. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.5.11" data-parsed="Exod_5_11_0_0" data-passage="Exod 5.11" id="Exod.5.11"/><sup>11</sup>Go yourselves, get you straw where ye can find it: for nought of your work shall be diminished. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.5.12" data-parsed="Exod_5_12_0_0" data-passage="Exod 5.12" id="Exod.5.12"/><sup>12</sup>So the people were scattered abroad throughout all the land of Egypt to gather stubble for straw. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.5.13" data-parsed="Exod_5_13_0_0" data-passage="Exod 5.13" id="Exod.5.13"/><sup>13</sup>And the taskmasters were urgent saying, Fulfil your works, <i>your</i> daily tasks,
as when there was straw. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.5.14" data-parsed="Exod_5_14_0_0" data-passage="Exod 5.14" id="Exod.5.14"/><sup>14</sup>And the officers of the children of Israel,
whom Pharaoh's taskmasters had set over them, were beaten, and demanded,
Wherefore have ye not fulfilled your task both yesterday and to-day, in making brick as heretofore?</p>
<p id="Exod.5-p3">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.5.15" data-parsed="Exod_5_15_0_0" data-passage="Exod 5.15" id="Exod.5.15"/><sup>15</sup>Then the officers of the children of Israel came and cried unto Pharaoh, saying, Wherefore dealest thou thus with thy servants? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.5.16" data-parsed="Exod_5_16_0_0" data-passage="Exod 5.16" id="Exod.5.16"/><sup>16</sup>There is no straw given unto thy servants, and they say to us, Make brick: and,
behold, thy servants are beaten; but the fault it in thine own people.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.5.17" data-parsed="Exod_5_17_0_0" data-passage="Exod 5.17" id="Exod.5.17"/><sup>17</sup>But he said, Ye are idle, ye are idle: therefore ye say, Let us go and sacrifice to Jehovah. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.5.18" data-parsed="Exod_5_18_0_0" data-passage="Exod 5.18" id="Exod.5.18"/><sup>18</sup>Go therefore now, and work; for there shall no straw be given you, yet shall ye deliver the number of bricks. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.5.19" data-parsed="Exod_5_19_0_0" data-passage="Exod 5.19" id="Exod.5.19"/><sup>19</sup>And the officers of the children of Israel did see that they were in evil case, when it was said, Ye shall not diminish aught from your bricks, <i>your</i> daily tasks. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.5.20" data-parsed="Exod_5_20_0_0" data-passage="Exod 5.20" id="Exod.5.20"/><sup>20</sup>And they met Moses and Aaron, who stood in the way, as they came forth from Pharaoh: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.5.21" data-parsed="Exod_5_21_0_0" data-passage="Exod 5.21" id="Exod.5.21"/><sup>21</sup>and they said unto them, Jehovah look upon you, and judge: because ye have made our savor to be abhorred in the eyes of Pharaoh,
and in the eyes of his servants, to put a sword in their hand to slay us.</p>
<p id="Exod.5-p4">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.5.22" data-parsed="Exod_5_22_0_0" data-passage="Exod 5.22" id="Exod.5.22"/><sup>22</sup>And Moses returned unto Jehovah, and said, Lord, wherefore hast thou dealt ill with this people? why is it that thou hast sent me? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.5.23" data-parsed="Exod_5_23_0_0" data-passage="Exod 5.23" id="Exod.5.23"/><sup>23</sup>For since I came to Pharaoh to speak in thy name, he hath dealt ill with this people;
neither hast thou delivered thy people at all.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>