<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Exodus 23</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Exodus 23</span></div><div data-next="Exod.24" data-prev="Exod.22" data-progress="7.82%" data-shorttitle="" id="Exod.23" title="Exodus 23">
<h2 id="Exod.23-p0.1">23</h2>
<p id="Exod.23-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.23.1" data-parsed="Exod_23_1_0_0" data-passage="Exod 23.1" id="Exod.23.1"/><sup>1</sup>Thou shalt not take up a false report: put not thy hand with the wicked to be an unrighteous witness. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.23.2" data-parsed="Exod_23_2_0_0" data-passage="Exod 23.2" id="Exod.23.2"/><sup>2</sup>Thou shalt not follow a multitude to do evil; neither shalt thou speak in a cause to turn aside after a multitude to wrest <i>justice</i>: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.23.3" data-parsed="Exod_23_3_0_0" data-passage="Exod 23.3" id="Exod.23.3"/><sup>3</sup>neither shalt thou favor a poor man in his cause.</p>
<p id="Exod.23-p2">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.23.4" data-parsed="Exod_23_4_0_0" data-passage="Exod 23.4" id="Exod.23.4"/><sup>4</sup>If thou meet thine enemy's ox or his ass going astray, thou shalt surely bring it back to him again. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.23.5" data-parsed="Exod_23_5_0_0" data-passage="Exod 23.5" id="Exod.23.5"/><sup>5</sup>If thou see the ass of him that hateth thee lying under his burden, thou shalt forbear to leave him, thou shalt surely release <i>it</i> with him.</p>
<p id="Exod.23-p3">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.23.6" data-parsed="Exod_23_6_0_0" data-passage="Exod 23.6" id="Exod.23.6"/><sup>6</sup>Thou shalt not wrest the justice <i>due</i> to thy poor in his cause.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.23.7" data-parsed="Exod_23_7_0_0" data-passage="Exod 23.7" id="Exod.23.7"/><sup>7</sup>Keep thee far from a false matter; and the innocent and righteous slay thou not: for I will not justify the wicked. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.23.8" data-parsed="Exod_23_8_0_0" data-passage="Exod 23.8" id="Exod.23.8"/><sup>8</sup>And thou shalt take no bribe: for a bribe blindeth them that have sight, and perverteth the words of the righteous. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.23.9" data-parsed="Exod_23_9_0_0" data-passage="Exod 23.9" id="Exod.23.9"/><sup>9</sup>And a sojourner shalt thou not oppress: for ye know the heart of a sojourner, seeing ye were sojourners in the land of Egypt.</p>
<p id="Exod.23-p4">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.23.10" data-parsed="Exod_23_10_0_0" data-passage="Exod 23.10" id="Exod.23.10"/><sup>10</sup>And six years thou shalt sow thy land, and shalt gather in the increase thereof: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.23.11" data-parsed="Exod_23_11_0_0" data-passage="Exod 23.11" id="Exod.23.11"/><sup>11</sup>but the seventh year thou shalt let it rest and lie fallow;
that the poor of thy people may eat: and what they leave the beast of the field shall eat. In like manner thou shalt deal with thy vineyard,
<i>and</i> with thy oliveyard. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.23.12" data-parsed="Exod_23_12_0_0" data-passage="Exod 23.12" id="Exod.23.12"/><sup>12</sup>Six days thou shalt do thy work, and on the seventh day thou shalt rest; that thine ox and thine ass may have rest,
and the son of thy handmaid, and the sojourner, may be refreshed. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.23.13" data-parsed="Exod_23_13_0_0" data-passage="Exod 23.13" id="Exod.23.13"/><sup>13</sup>And in all things that I have said unto you take ye heed: and make no mention of the name of other gods, neither let it be heard out of thy mouth.</p>
<p id="Exod.23-p5">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.23.14" data-parsed="Exod_23_14_0_0" data-passage="Exod 23.14" id="Exod.23.14"/><sup>14</sup>Three times thou shalt keep a feast unto me in the year. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.23.15" data-parsed="Exod_23_15_0_0" data-passage="Exod 23.15" id="Exod.23.15"/><sup>15</sup>The feast of unleavened bread shalt thou keep: seven days thou shalt eat unleavened bread, as I commanded thee, at the time appointed in the month Abib (for in it thou camest out from Egypt); and none shall appear before me empty: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.23.16" data-parsed="Exod_23_16_0_0" data-passage="Exod 23.16" id="Exod.23.16"/><sup>16</sup>and the feast of harvest, the first-fruits of thy labors, which thou sowest in the field: and the feast of ingathering, at the end of the year, when thou gatherest in thy labors out of the field. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.23.17" data-parsed="Exod_23_17_0_0" data-passage="Exod 23.17" id="Exod.23.17"/><sup>17</sup>Three times in the year all thy males shall appear before the Lord Jehovah.</p>
<p id="Exod.23-p6">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.23.18" data-parsed="Exod_23_18_0_0" data-passage="Exod 23.18" id="Exod.23.18"/><sup>18</sup>Thou shalt not offer the blood of my sacrifice with leavened bread;
neither shall the fat of my feast remain all night until the morning.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.23.19" data-parsed="Exod_23_19_0_0" data-passage="Exod 23.19" id="Exod.23.19"/><sup>19</sup>The first of the first-fruits of thy ground thou shalt bring into the house of Jehovah thy God. Thou shalt not boil a kid in it mother's milk.</p>
<p id="Exod.23-p7">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.23.20" data-parsed="Exod_23_20_0_0" data-passage="Exod 23.20" id="Exod.23.20"/><sup>20</sup>Behold, I send an angel before thee, to keep thee by the way, and to bring thee into the place which I have prepared. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.23.21" data-parsed="Exod_23_21_0_0" data-passage="Exod 23.21" id="Exod.23.21"/><sup>21</sup>Take ye heed before him, and hearken unto his voice; provoke him not; for he will not pardon your transgression: for my name is in him. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.23.22" data-parsed="Exod_23_22_0_0" data-passage="Exod 23.22" id="Exod.23.22"/><sup>22</sup>But if thou shalt indeed hearken unto his voice, and do all that I speak; then I will be an enemy unto thine enemies, and an adversary unto thine adversaries. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.23.23" data-parsed="Exod_23_23_0_0" data-passage="Exod 23.23" id="Exod.23.23"/><sup>23</sup>For mine angel shall go before thee, and bring thee in unto the Amorite, and the Hittite, and the Perizzite, and the Canaanite, the Hivite, and the Jebusite: and I will cut them off. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.23.24" data-parsed="Exod_23_24_0_0" data-passage="Exod 23.24" id="Exod.23.24"/><sup>24</sup>Thou shalt not bow down to their gods, nor serve them, nor do after their works; but thou shalt utterly overthrow them, and break in pieces their pillars. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.23.25" data-parsed="Exod_23_25_0_0" data-passage="Exod 23.25" id="Exod.23.25"/><sup>25</sup>And ye shall serve Jehovah your God, and he will bless thy bread, and thy water; and I will take sickness away from the midst of thee. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.23.26" data-parsed="Exod_23_26_0_0" data-passage="Exod 23.26" id="Exod.23.26"/><sup>26</sup>There shall none cast her young, nor be barren, in thy land: the number of thy days I will fulfil. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.23.27" data-parsed="Exod_23_27_0_0" data-passage="Exod 23.27" id="Exod.23.27"/><sup>27</sup>I will send my terror before thee,
and will discomfit all the people to whom thou shalt come, and I will make all thine enemies turn their backs unto thee. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.23.28" data-parsed="Exod_23_28_0_0" data-passage="Exod 23.28" id="Exod.23.28"/><sup>28</sup>And I will send the hornet before thee, which shall drive out the Hivite, the Canaanite, and the Hittite, from before thee. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.23.29" data-parsed="Exod_23_29_0_0" data-passage="Exod 23.29" id="Exod.23.29"/><sup>29</sup>I will not drive them out from before thee in one year, lest the land become desolate, and the beasts of the field multiply against thee. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.23.30" data-parsed="Exod_23_30_0_0" data-passage="Exod 23.30" id="Exod.23.30"/><sup>30</sup>By little and little I will drive them out from before thee, until thou be increased, and inherit the land. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.23.31" data-parsed="Exod_23_31_0_0" data-passage="Exod 23.31" id="Exod.23.31"/><sup>31</sup>And I will set thy border from the Red Sea even unto the sea of the Philistines, and from the wilderness unto the River: for I will deliver the inhabitants of the land into your hand: and thou shalt drive them out before thee. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.23.32" data-parsed="Exod_23_32_0_0" data-passage="Exod 23.32" id="Exod.23.32"/><sup>32</sup>Thou shalt make no covenant with them, nor with their gods. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.23.33" data-parsed="Exod_23_33_0_0" data-passage="Exod 23.33" id="Exod.23.33"/><sup>33</sup>They shall not dwell in thy land, lest they make thee sin against me; for if thou serve their gods, it will surely be a snare unto thee.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>