<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Exodus 27</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Exodus 27</span></div><div data-next="Exod.28" data-prev="Exod.26" data-progress="8.21%" data-shorttitle="" id="Exod.27" title="Exodus 27">
<h2 id="Exod.27-p0.1">27</h2>
<p id="Exod.27-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.27.1" data-parsed="Exod_27_1_0_0" data-passage="Exod 27.1" id="Exod.27.1"/><sup>1</sup>And thou shalt make the altar of acacia wood, five cubits long,
and five cubits broad; the altar shall be foursquare: and the height thereof shall be three cubits. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.27.2" data-parsed="Exod_27_2_0_0" data-passage="Exod 27.2" id="Exod.27.2"/><sup>2</sup>And thou shalt make the horns of it upon the four corners thereof; the horns thereof shall be of one piece with it: and thou shalt overlay it with brass. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.27.3" data-parsed="Exod_27_3_0_0" data-passage="Exod 27.3" id="Exod.27.3"/><sup>3</sup>And thou shalt make its pots to take away its ashes, and its shovels, and its basins, and its flesh-hooks, and its firepans: all the vessels thereof thou shalt make of brass. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.27.4" data-parsed="Exod_27_4_0_0" data-passage="Exod 27.4" id="Exod.27.4"/><sup>4</sup>And thou shalt make for it a grating of network of brass: and upon the net shalt thou make four brazen rings in the four corners thereof. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.27.5" data-parsed="Exod_27_5_0_0" data-passage="Exod 27.5" id="Exod.27.5"/><sup>5</sup>And thou shalt put it under the ledge round the altar beneath, that the net may reach halfway up the altar. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.27.6" data-parsed="Exod_27_6_0_0" data-passage="Exod 27.6" id="Exod.27.6"/><sup>6</sup>And thou shalt make staves for the altar, staves of acacia wood, and overlay them with brass. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.27.7" data-parsed="Exod_27_7_0_0" data-passage="Exod 27.7" id="Exod.27.7"/><sup>7</sup>And the staves thereof shall be put into the rings, and the staves shall be upon the two sides of the altar, in bearing it. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.27.8" data-parsed="Exod_27_8_0_0" data-passage="Exod 27.8" id="Exod.27.8"/><sup>8</sup>Hollow with planks shalt thou make it: as it hath been showed thee in the mount, so shall they make it.</p>
<p id="Exod.27-p2">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.27.9" data-parsed="Exod_27_9_0_0" data-passage="Exod 27.9" id="Exod.27.9"/><sup>9</sup>And thou shalt make the court of the tabernacle: for the south side southward there shall be hangings for the court of fine twined linen a hundred cubits long for one side: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.27.10" data-parsed="Exod_27_10_0_0" data-passage="Exod 27.10" id="Exod.27.10"/><sup>10</sup>and the pillars thereof shall be twenty, and their sockets twenty, of brass; the hooks of the pillars and their fillets <i>shall be</i> of silver. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.27.11" data-parsed="Exod_27_11_0_0" data-passage="Exod 27.11" id="Exod.27.11"/><sup>11</sup>And likewise for the north side in length there shall be hangings a hundred cubits long, and the pillars thereof twenty, and their sockets twenty, of brass; the hooks of the pillars,
and their fillets, of silver. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.27.12" data-parsed="Exod_27_12_0_0" data-passage="Exod 27.12" id="Exod.27.12"/><sup>12</sup>And for the breadth of the court on the west side shall be hangings of fifty cubits; their pillars ten, and their sockets ten. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.27.13" data-parsed="Exod_27_13_0_0" data-passage="Exod 27.13" id="Exod.27.13"/><sup>13</sup>And the breadth of the court on the east side eastward shall be fifty cubits. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.27.14" data-parsed="Exod_27_14_0_0" data-passage="Exod 27.14" id="Exod.27.14"/><sup>14</sup>The hangings for the one side <i>of the gate</i> shall be fifteen cubits; their pillars three, and their sockets three. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.27.15" data-parsed="Exod_27_15_0_0" data-passage="Exod 27.15" id="Exod.27.15"/><sup>15</sup>And for the other side shall be hangings of fifteen cubits;
their pillars three, and their sockets three. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.27.16" data-parsed="Exod_27_16_0_0" data-passage="Exod 27.16" id="Exod.27.16"/><sup>16</sup>And for the gate of the court shall be a screen of twenty cubits, of blue, and purple, and scarlet,
and fine twined linen, the work of the embroiderer; their pillars four, and their sockets four. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.27.17" data-parsed="Exod_27_17_0_0" data-passage="Exod 27.17" id="Exod.27.17"/><sup>17</sup>All the pillars of the court round about shall be filleted with silver; their hooks of silver, and their sockets of brass.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.27.18" data-parsed="Exod_27_18_0_0" data-passage="Exod 27.18" id="Exod.27.18"/><sup>18</sup>The length of the court shall be a hundred cubits, and the breadth fifty every where, and the height five cubits, of fine twined linen, and their sockets of brass. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.27.19" data-parsed="Exod_27_19_0_0" data-passage="Exod 27.19" id="Exod.27.19"/><sup>19</sup>All the instruments of the tabernacle in all the service thereof, and all the pins thereof, and all the pins of the court,
shall be of brass.</p>
<p id="Exod.27-p3">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.27.20" data-parsed="Exod_27_20_0_0" data-passage="Exod 27.20" id="Exod.27.20"/><sup>20</sup>And thou shalt command the children of Israel, that they bring unto thee pure olive oil beaten for the light, to cause a lamp to burn continually. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.27.21" data-parsed="Exod_27_21_0_0" data-passage="Exod 27.21" id="Exod.27.21"/><sup>21</sup>In the tent of meeting, without the veil which is before the testimony, Aaron and his sons shall keep it in order from evening to morning before Jehovah: it shall be a statue for ever throughout their generations on the behalf of the children of Israel.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>