<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Exodus 6</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Exodus 6</span></div><div data-next="Exod.7" data-prev="Exod.5" data-progress="6.17%" data-shorttitle="" id="Exod.6" title="Exodus 6">
<h2 id="Exod.6-p0.1">6</h2>
<p id="Exod.6-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.6.1" data-parsed="Exod_6_1_0_0" data-passage="Exod 6.1" id="Exod.6.1"/><sup>1</sup>And Jehovah said unto Moses, Now shalt thou see what I will do to Pharaoh: for by a strong hand shall he let them go, and by a strong hand shall he drive them out of his land.</p>
<p id="Exod.6-p2">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.6.2" data-parsed="Exod_6_2_0_0" data-passage="Exod 6.2" id="Exod.6.2"/><sup>2</sup>And God spake unto Moses, and said unto him, I am Jehovah: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.6.3" data-parsed="Exod_6_3_0_0" data-passage="Exod 6.3" id="Exod.6.3"/><sup>3</sup>and I appeared unto Abraham, unto Isaac, and unto Jacob, as God Almighty; but by my name Jehovah I was not known to them. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.6.4" data-parsed="Exod_6_4_0_0" data-passage="Exod 6.4" id="Exod.6.4"/><sup>4</sup>And I have also established my covenant with them, to give them the land of Canaan, the land of their sojournings, wherein they sojourned. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.6.5" data-parsed="Exod_6_5_0_0" data-passage="Exod 6.5" id="Exod.6.5"/><sup>5</sup>And moreover I have heard the groaning of the children of Israel, whom the Egyptians keep in bondage; and I have remembered my covenant. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.6.6" data-parsed="Exod_6_6_0_0" data-passage="Exod 6.6" id="Exod.6.6"/><sup>6</sup>Wherefore say unto the children of Israel,
I am Jehovah, and I will bring you out from under the burdens of the Egyptians, and I will rid you out of their bondage, and I will redeem you with an outstretched arm, and with great judgments: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.6.7" data-parsed="Exod_6_7_0_0" data-passage="Exod 6.7" id="Exod.6.7"/><sup>7</sup>and I will take you to me for a people, and I will be to you a God; and ye shall know that I am Jehovah your God, who bringeth you out from under the burdens of the Egyptians. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.6.8" data-parsed="Exod_6_8_0_0" data-passage="Exod 6.8" id="Exod.6.8"/><sup>8</sup>And I will bring you in unto the land which I sware to give to Abraham, to Isaac, and to Jacob; and I will give it you for a heritage: I am Jehovah. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.6.9" data-parsed="Exod_6_9_0_0" data-passage="Exod 6.9" id="Exod.6.9"/><sup>9</sup>And Moses spake so unto the children of Israel: but they hearkened not unto Moses for anguish of spirit, and for cruel bondage.</p>
<p id="Exod.6-p3">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.6.10" data-parsed="Exod_6_10_0_0" data-passage="Exod 6.10" id="Exod.6.10"/><sup>10</sup>And Jehovah spake unto Moses, saying, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.6.11" data-parsed="Exod_6_11_0_0" data-passage="Exod 6.11" id="Exod.6.11"/><sup>11</sup>Go in, speak unto Pharaoh king of Egypt, that he let the children of Israel go out of his land.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.6.12" data-parsed="Exod_6_12_0_0" data-passage="Exod 6.12" id="Exod.6.12"/><sup>12</sup>And Moses spake before Jehovah, saying, Behold, the children of Israel have not hearkened unto me; how then shall Pharaoh hear me, who am of uncircumcised lips? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.6.13" data-parsed="Exod_6_13_0_0" data-passage="Exod 6.13" id="Exod.6.13"/><sup>13</sup>And Jehovah spake unto Moses and unto Aaron, and gave them a charge unto the children of Israel, and unto Pharaoh king of Egypt, to bring the children of Israel out of the land of Egypt.</p>
<p id="Exod.6-p4">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.6.14" data-parsed="Exod_6_14_0_0" data-passage="Exod 6.14" id="Exod.6.14"/><sup>14</sup>These are the heads of their fathers' houses. The sons of Reuben the first-born of Israel: Hanoch, and Pallu, Hezron, and Carmi; these are the families of Reuben. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.6.15" data-parsed="Exod_6_15_0_0" data-passage="Exod 6.15" id="Exod.6.15"/><sup>15</sup>And the sons of Simeon: Jemuel, and Jamin, and Ohad, and Jachin, and Zohar, and Shaul the son of a Canaanitish woman; these are the families of Simeon. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.6.16" data-parsed="Exod_6_16_0_0" data-passage="Exod 6.16" id="Exod.6.16"/><sup>16</sup>And these are the names of the sons of Levi according to their generations: Gershon, and Kohath, and Merari; and the years of the life of Levi were a hundred thirty and seven years. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.6.17" data-parsed="Exod_6_17_0_0" data-passage="Exod 6.17" id="Exod.6.17"/><sup>17</sup>The sons of Gershon: Libni and Shimei, according to their families. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.6.18" data-parsed="Exod_6_18_0_0" data-passage="Exod 6.18" id="Exod.6.18"/><sup>18</sup>And the sons of Kohath: Amram, and Izhar, and Hebron, and Uzziel; and the years of the life of Kohath were a hundred thirty and three years. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.6.19" data-parsed="Exod_6_19_0_0" data-passage="Exod 6.19" id="Exod.6.19"/><sup>19</sup>And the sons of Merari: Mahli and Mushi. These are the families of the Levites according to their generations. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.6.20" data-parsed="Exod_6_20_0_0" data-passage="Exod 6.20" id="Exod.6.20"/><sup>20</sup>And Amram took him Jochebed his father's sister to wife; and she bare him Aaron and Moses: and the years of the life of Amram were a hundred and thirty and seven years. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.6.21" data-parsed="Exod_6_21_0_0" data-passage="Exod 6.21" id="Exod.6.21"/><sup>21</sup>And the sons of Izhar:
Korah, and Nepheg, and Zichri. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.6.22" data-parsed="Exod_6_22_0_0" data-passage="Exod 6.22" id="Exod.6.22"/><sup>22</sup>And the sons of Uzziel: Mishael, and Elzaphan, and Sithri. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.6.23" data-parsed="Exod_6_23_0_0" data-passage="Exod 6.23" id="Exod.6.23"/><sup>23</sup>And Aaron took him Elisheba, the daughter of Amminadab, the sister of Nahshon, to wife; and she bare him Nadab and Abihu,
Eleazar and Ithamar. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.6.24" data-parsed="Exod_6_24_0_0" data-passage="Exod 6.24" id="Exod.6.24"/><sup>24</sup>And the sons of Korah: Assir, and Elkanah, and Abiasaph; these are the families of the Korahites. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.6.25" data-parsed="Exod_6_25_0_0" data-passage="Exod 6.25" id="Exod.6.25"/><sup>25</sup>And Eleazar Aaron's son took him one of the daughters of Putiel to wife; and she bare him Phinehas. These are the heads of the fathers' <i>houses</i> of the Levites according to their families. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.6.26" data-parsed="Exod_6_26_0_0" data-passage="Exod 6.26" id="Exod.6.26"/><sup>26</sup>These are that Aaron and Moses, to whom Jehovah said, Bring out the children of Israel from the land of Egypt according to their hosts. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.6.27" data-parsed="Exod_6_27_0_0" data-passage="Exod 6.27" id="Exod.6.27"/><sup>27</sup>These are they that spake to Pharaoh king of Egypt, to bring out the children of Israel from Egypt: these are that Moses and Aaron.</p>
<p id="Exod.6-p5">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.6.28" data-parsed="Exod_6_28_0_0" data-passage="Exod 6.28" id="Exod.6.28"/><sup>28</sup>And it came to pass on the day when Jehovah spake unto Moses in the land of Egypt, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.6.29" data-parsed="Exod_6_29_0_0" data-passage="Exod 6.29" id="Exod.6.29"/><sup>29</sup>that Jehovah spake unto Moses, saying, I am Jehovah:
speak thou unto Pharaoh king of Egypt all that I speak unto thee. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Exod.6.30" data-parsed="Exod_6_30_0_0" data-passage="Exod 6.30" id="Exod.6.30"/><sup>30</sup>And Moses said before Jehovah, Behold, I am of uncircumcised lips, and how shall Pharaoh hearken unto me?</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>