<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Ezekiel 43</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Ezekiel 43</span></div><div data-next="Ezek.44" data-prev="Ezek.42" data-progress="71.49%" data-shorttitle="" id="Ezek.43" title="Ezekiel 43">
<h2 id="Ezek.43-p0.1">43</h2>
<p id="Ezek.43-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.43.1" data-parsed="Ezek_43_1_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 43.1" id="Ezek.43.1"/><sup>1</sup>Afterward he brought me to the gate, even the gate that looketh toward the east. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.43.2" data-parsed="Ezek_43_2_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 43.2" id="Ezek.43.2"/><sup>2</sup>And, behold, the glory of the God of Israel came from the way of the east: and his voice was like the sound of many waters; and the earth shined with his glory. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.43.3" data-parsed="Ezek_43_3_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 43.3" id="Ezek.43.3"/><sup>3</sup>And it was according to the appearance of the vision which I saw, even according to the vision that I saw when I came to destroy the city; and the visions were like the vision that I saw by the river Chebar; and I fell upon my face. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.43.4" data-parsed="Ezek_43_4_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 43.4" id="Ezek.43.4"/><sup>4</sup>And the glory of Jehovah came into the house by the way of the gate whose prospect is toward the east.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.43.5" data-parsed="Ezek_43_5_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 43.5" id="Ezek.43.5"/><sup>5</sup>And the Spirit took me up, and brought me into the inner court; and,
behold, the glory of Jehovah filled the house. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.43.6" data-parsed="Ezek_43_6_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 43.6" id="Ezek.43.6"/><sup>6</sup>And I heard one speaking unto me out of the house; and a man stood by me. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.43.7" data-parsed="Ezek_43_7_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 43.7" id="Ezek.43.7"/><sup>7</sup>And he said unto me,
Son of man, <i>this is</i> the place of my throne, and the place of the soles of my feet, where I will dwell in the midst of the children of Israel for ever. And the house of Israel shall no more defile my holy name, neither they, nor their kings, by their whoredom, and by the dead bodies of their kings <i>in</i> their high places; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.43.8" data-parsed="Ezek_43_8_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 43.8" id="Ezek.43.8"/><sup>8</sup>in their setting of their threshold by my threshold, and their door-post beside my door-post, and there was <i>but</i> the wall between me and them; and they have defiled my holy name by their abominations which they have committed: wherefore I have consumed them in mine anger. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.43.9" data-parsed="Ezek_43_9_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 43.9" id="Ezek.43.9"/><sup>9</sup>Now let them put away their whoredom, and the dead bodies of their kings, far from me; and I will dwell in the midst of them for ever. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.43.10" data-parsed="Ezek_43_10_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 43.10" id="Ezek.43.10"/><sup>10</sup>Thou, son of man, show the house to the house of Israel, that they may be ashamed of their iniquities; and let them measure the pattern.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.43.11" data-parsed="Ezek_43_11_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 43.11" id="Ezek.43.11"/><sup>11</sup>And if they be ashamed of all that they have done, make known unto them the form of the house, and the fashion thereof, and the egresses thereof, and the entrances thereof, and all the forms thereof, and all the ordinances thereof, and all the forms thereof, and all the laws thereof; and write it in their sight; that they may keep the whole form thereof, and all the ordinances thereof, and do them. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.43.12" data-parsed="Ezek_43_12_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 43.12" id="Ezek.43.12"/><sup>12</sup>This is the law of the house: upon the top of the mountain the whole limit thereof round about shall be most holy.
Behold, this is the law of the house. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.43.13" data-parsed="Ezek_43_13_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 43.13" id="Ezek.43.13"/><sup>13</sup>And these are the measures of the altar by cubits (the cubit is a cubit and a handbreadth): the bottom shall be a cubit, and the breadth a cubit, and the border thereof by the edge thereof round about a span; and this shall be the base of the altar. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.43.14" data-parsed="Ezek_43_14_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 43.14" id="Ezek.43.14"/><sup>14</sup>And from the bottom upon the ground to the lower ledge shall be two cubits, and the breadth one cubit; and from the lesser ledge to the greater ledge shall be four cubits, and the breadth a cubit. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.43.15" data-parsed="Ezek_43_15_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 43.15" id="Ezek.43.15"/><sup>15</sup>And the upper altar shall be four cubits; and from the altar hearth and upward there shall be four horns.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.43.16" data-parsed="Ezek_43_16_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 43.16" id="Ezek.43.16"/><sup>16</sup>And the altar hearth shall be twelve <i>cubits</i> long by twelve broad, square in the four sides thereof. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.43.17" data-parsed="Ezek_43_17_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 43.17" id="Ezek.43.17"/><sup>17</sup>And the ledge shall be fourteen <i>cubits</i> long by fourteen broad in the four sides thereof; and the border about it shall be half a cubit; and the bottom thereof shall be a cubit round about; and the steps thereof shall look toward the east.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.43.18" data-parsed="Ezek_43_18_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 43.18" id="Ezek.43.18"/><sup>18</sup>And he said unto me, Son of man, thus saith the Lord Jehovah: These are the ordinances of the altar in the day when they shall make it, to offer burnt-offerings thereon, and to sprinkle blood thereon. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.43.19" data-parsed="Ezek_43_19_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 43.19" id="Ezek.43.19"/><sup>19</sup>Thou shalt give to the priests the Levites that are of the seed of Zadok, who are near unto me, to minister unto me, saith the Lord Jehovah, a young bullock for a sin-offering. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.43.20" data-parsed="Ezek_43_20_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 43.20" id="Ezek.43.20"/><sup>20</sup>And thou shalt take of the blood thereof, and put it on the four horns of it, and on the four corners of the ledge, and upon the border round about: thus shalt thou cleanse it and make atonement for it.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.43.21" data-parsed="Ezek_43_21_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 43.21" id="Ezek.43.21"/><sup>21</sup>Thou shalt also take the bullock of the sin-offering, and it shall be burnt in the appointed place of the house, without the sanctuary. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.43.22" data-parsed="Ezek_43_22_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 43.22" id="Ezek.43.22"/><sup>22</sup>And on the second day thou shalt offer a he-goat without blemish for a sin-offering; and they shall cleanse the altar, as they did cleanse it with the bullock. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.43.23" data-parsed="Ezek_43_23_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 43.23" id="Ezek.43.23"/><sup>23</sup>When thou hast made an end of cleansing it, thou shalt offer a young bullock without blemish, and a ram out of the flock without blemish. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.43.24" data-parsed="Ezek_43_24_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 43.24" id="Ezek.43.24"/><sup>24</sup>And thou shalt bring them near before Jehovah, and the priests shall cast salt upon them, and they shall offer them up for a burnt-offering unto Jehovah. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.43.25" data-parsed="Ezek_43_25_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 43.25" id="Ezek.43.25"/><sup>25</sup>Seven days shalt thou prepare every day a goat for a sin-offering: they shall also prepare a young bullock, and a ram out of the flock, without blemish. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.43.26" data-parsed="Ezek_43_26_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 43.26" id="Ezek.43.26"/><sup>26</sup>Seven days shall they make atonement for the altar and purify it; so shall they consecrate it. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.43.27" data-parsed="Ezek_43_27_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 43.27" id="Ezek.43.27"/><sup>27</sup>And when they have accomplished the days, it shall be that upon the eighth day, and forward, the priests shall make your burnt-offerings upon the altar, and your peace-offerings; and I will accept you, saith the Lord Jehovah.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>