<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Ezekiel 23</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Ezekiel 23</span></div><div data-next="Ezek.24" data-prev="Ezek.22" data-progress="69.32%" data-shorttitle="" id="Ezek.23" title="Ezekiel 23">
<h2 id="Ezek.23-p0.1">23</h2>
<p id="Ezek.23-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.23.1" data-parsed="Ezek_23_1_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 23.1" id="Ezek.23.1"/><sup>1</sup>The word of Jehovah came again unto me, saying, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.23.2" data-parsed="Ezek_23_2_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 23.2" id="Ezek.23.2"/><sup>2</sup>Son of man,
there were two women, the daughters of one mother: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.23.3" data-parsed="Ezek_23_3_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 23.3" id="Ezek.23.3"/><sup>3</sup>and they played the harlot in Egypt; they played the harlot in their youth; there were their breasts pressed, and there was handled the bosom of their virginity. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.23.4" data-parsed="Ezek_23_4_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 23.4" id="Ezek.23.4"/><sup>4</sup>And the names of them were Oholah the elder, and Oholibah her sister: and they became mine, and they bare sons and daughters. And as for their names,
Samaria is Oholah, and Jerusalem Oholibah. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.23.5" data-parsed="Ezek_23_5_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 23.5" id="Ezek.23.5"/><sup>5</sup>And Oholah played the harlot when she was mine; and she doted on her lovers, on the Assyrians <i>her</i>
neighbors, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.23.6" data-parsed="Ezek_23_6_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 23.6" id="Ezek.23.6"/><sup>6</sup>who were clothed with blue, governors and rulers, all of them desirable young men, horsemen riding upon horses. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.23.7" data-parsed="Ezek_23_7_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 23.7" id="Ezek.23.7"/><sup>7</sup>And she bestowed her whoredoms upon them, the choicest men of Assyria all of them; and on whomsoever she doted, with all their idols she defiled herself. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.23.8" data-parsed="Ezek_23_8_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 23.8" id="Ezek.23.8"/><sup>8</sup>Neither hath she left her whoredoms since <i>the days of</i> Egypt; for in her youth they lay with her, and they handled the bosom of her virginity; and they poured out their whoredom upon her. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.23.9" data-parsed="Ezek_23_9_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 23.9" id="Ezek.23.9"/><sup>9</sup>Wherefore I delivered her into the hand of her lovers, into the hand of the Assyrians, upon whom she doted.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.23.10" data-parsed="Ezek_23_10_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 23.10" id="Ezek.23.10"/><sup>10</sup>These uncovered her nakedness; they took her sons and her daughters;
and her they slew with the sword: and she became a byword among women; for they executed judgments upon her. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.23.11" data-parsed="Ezek_23_11_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 23.11" id="Ezek.23.11"/><sup>11</sup>And her sister Oholibah saw this, yet was she more corrupt in her doting than she, and in her whoredoms which were more than the whoredoms of her sister. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.23.12" data-parsed="Ezek_23_12_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 23.12" id="Ezek.23.12"/><sup>12</sup>She doted upon the Assyrians,
governors and rulers, <i>her</i> neighbors, clothed most gorgeously,
horsemen riding upon horses, all of them desirable young men. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.23.13" data-parsed="Ezek_23_13_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 23.13" id="Ezek.23.13"/><sup>13</sup>And I saw that she was defiled; they both took one way. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.23.14" data-parsed="Ezek_23_14_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 23.14" id="Ezek.23.14"/><sup>14</sup>And she increased her whoredoms; for she saw men portrayed upon the wall, the images of the Chaldeans portrayed with vermilion, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.23.15" data-parsed="Ezek_23_15_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 23.15" id="Ezek.23.15"/><sup>15</sup>girded with girdles upon their loins, with flowing turbans upon their heads, all of them princes to look upon, after the likeness of the Babylonians in Chaldea, the land of their nativity. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.23.16" data-parsed="Ezek_23_16_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 23.16" id="Ezek.23.16"/><sup>16</sup>And as soon as she saw them she doted upon them, and sent messengers unto them into Chaldea. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.23.17" data-parsed="Ezek_23_17_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 23.17" id="Ezek.23.17"/><sup>17</sup>And the Babylonians came to her into the bed of love, and they defiled her with their whoredom, and she was polluted with them, and her soul was alienated from them. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.23.18" data-parsed="Ezek_23_18_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 23.18" id="Ezek.23.18"/><sup>18</sup>So she uncovered her whoredoms, and uncovered her nakedness: then my soul was alienated from her, like as my soul was alienated from her sister. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.23.19" data-parsed="Ezek_23_19_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 23.19" id="Ezek.23.19"/><sup>19</sup>Yet she multiplied her whoredoms, remembering the days of her youth, wherein she had played the harlot in the land of Egypt. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.23.20" data-parsed="Ezek_23_20_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 23.20" id="Ezek.23.20"/><sup>20</sup>And she doted upon their paramours, whose flesh is as the flesh of asses, and whose issue is like the issue of horses. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.23.21" data-parsed="Ezek_23_21_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 23.21" id="Ezek.23.21"/><sup>21</sup>Thus thou calledst to remembrance the lewdness of thy youth, in the handling of thy bosom by the Egyptians for the breasts of thy youth. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.23.22" data-parsed="Ezek_23_22_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 23.22" id="Ezek.23.22"/><sup>22</sup>Therefore, O Oholibah, thus saith the Lord Jehovah: Behold, I will raise up thy lovers against thee, from whom thy soul is alienated, and I will bring them against thee on every side: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.23.23" data-parsed="Ezek_23_23_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 23.23" id="Ezek.23.23"/><sup>23</sup>the Babylonians and all the Chaldeans, Pekod and Shoa and Koa, <i>and</i> all the Assyrians with them;
desirable young men, governors and rulers all of them, princes and men of renown, all of them riding upon horses. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.23.24" data-parsed="Ezek_23_24_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 23.24" id="Ezek.23.24"/><sup>24</sup>And they shall come against thee with weapons, chariots, and wagons, and with a company of peoples; they shall set themselves against thee with buckler and shield and helmet round about; and I will commit the judgment unto them, and they shall judge thee according to their judgments. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.23.25" data-parsed="Ezek_23_25_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 23.25" id="Ezek.23.25"/><sup>25</sup>And I will set my jealousy against thee,
and they shall deal with thee in fury; they shall take away thy nose and thine ears; and thy residue shall fall by the sword: they shall take thy sons and thy daughters; and thy residue shall be devoured by the fire. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.23.26" data-parsed="Ezek_23_26_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 23.26" id="Ezek.23.26"/><sup>26</sup>They shall also strip thee of thy clothes, and take away thy fair jewels.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.23.27" data-parsed="Ezek_23_27_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 23.27" id="Ezek.23.27"/><sup>27</sup>Thus will I make thy lewdness to cease from thee, and thy whoredom <i>brought</i> from the land of Egypt; so that thou shalt not lift up thine eyes unto them, nor remember Egypt any more. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.23.28" data-parsed="Ezek_23_28_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 23.28" id="Ezek.23.28"/><sup>28</sup>For thus saith the Lord Jehovah: Behold, I will deliver thee into the hand of them whom thou hatest,
into the hand of them from whom thy soul is alienated; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.23.29" data-parsed="Ezek_23_29_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 23.29" id="Ezek.23.29"/><sup>29</sup>and they shall deal with thee in hatred, and shall take away all thy labor, and shall leave thee naked and bare; and the nakedness of thy whoredoms shall be uncovered,
both thy lewdness and thy whoredoms. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.23.30" data-parsed="Ezek_23_30_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 23.30" id="Ezek.23.30"/><sup>30</sup>These things shall be done unto thee, for that thou hast played the harlot after the nations, and because thou art polluted with their idols. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.23.31" data-parsed="Ezek_23_31_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 23.31" id="Ezek.23.31"/><sup>31</sup>Thou hast walked in the way of thy sister; therefore will I give her cup into thy hand. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.23.32" data-parsed="Ezek_23_32_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 23.32" id="Ezek.23.32"/><sup>32</sup>Thus saith the Lord Jehovah: Thou shalt drink of thy sister's cup, which is deep and large;
thou shalt be laughed to scorn and had in derision; it containeth much.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.23.33" data-parsed="Ezek_23_33_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 23.33" id="Ezek.23.33"/><sup>33</sup>Thou shalt be filled with drunkenness and sorrow, with the cup of astonishment and desolation, with the cup of thy sister Samaria. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.23.34" data-parsed="Ezek_23_34_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 23.34" id="Ezek.23.34"/><sup>34</sup>Thou shalt even drink it and drain it out, and thou shalt gnaw the sherds thereof,
and shalt tear thy breasts; for I have spoken it, saith the Lord Jehovah.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.23.35" data-parsed="Ezek_23_35_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 23.35" id="Ezek.23.35"/><sup>35</sup>Therefore thus saith the Lord Jehovah: Because thou hast forgotten me,
and cast me behind thy back, therefore bear thou also thy lewdness and thy whoredoms. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.23.36" data-parsed="Ezek_23_36_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 23.36" id="Ezek.23.36"/><sup>36</sup>Jehovah said moreover unto me: Son of man, wilt thou judge Oholah and Oholibah? then declare unto them their abominations. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.23.37" data-parsed="Ezek_23_37_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 23.37" id="Ezek.23.37"/><sup>37</sup>For they have committed adultery, and blood is in their hands; and with their idols have they committed adultery; and they have also caused their sons,
whom they bare unto me, to pass through <i>the fire</i> unto them to be devoured. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.23.38" data-parsed="Ezek_23_38_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 23.38" id="Ezek.23.38"/><sup>38</sup>Moreover this they have done unto me: they have defiled my sanctuary in the same day, and have profaned my sabbaths. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.23.39" data-parsed="Ezek_23_39_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 23.39" id="Ezek.23.39"/><sup>39</sup>For when they had slain their children to their idols, then they came the same day into my sanctuary to profane it; and, lo, thus have they done in the midst of my house. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.23.40" data-parsed="Ezek_23_40_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 23.40" id="Ezek.23.40"/><sup>40</sup>And furthermore ye have sent for men that come from far, unto whom a messenger was sent, and, lo, they came; for whom thou didst wash thyself, paint thine eyes, and deck thyself with ornaments, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.23.41" data-parsed="Ezek_23_41_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 23.41" id="Ezek.23.41"/><sup>41</sup>and sit upon a stately bed, with a table prepared before it, whereupon thou didst set mine incense and mine oil. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.23.42" data-parsed="Ezek_23_42_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 23.42" id="Ezek.23.42"/><sup>42</sup>And the voice of a multitude being at ease was with her: and with men of the common sort were brought drunkards from the wilderness; and they put bracelets upon the hands of them <i>twain</i>, and beautiful crowns upon their heads. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.23.43" data-parsed="Ezek_23_43_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 23.43" id="Ezek.23.43"/><sup>43</sup>Then said I of her that was old in adulteries, Now will they play the harlot with her, and she <i>with them</i>. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.23.44" data-parsed="Ezek_23_44_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 23.44" id="Ezek.23.44"/><sup>44</sup>And they went in unto her, as they go in unto a harlot: so went they in unto Oholah and unto Oholibah, the lewd women. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.23.45" data-parsed="Ezek_23_45_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 23.45" id="Ezek.23.45"/><sup>45</sup>And righteous men, they shall judge them with the judgment of adulteresses, and with the judgment of women that shed blood; because they are adulteresses,
and blood is in their hands. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.23.46" data-parsed="Ezek_23_46_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 23.46" id="Ezek.23.46"/><sup>46</sup>For thus saith the Lord Jehovah: I will bring up a company against them, and will give them to be tossed to and fro and robbed. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.23.47" data-parsed="Ezek_23_47_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 23.47" id="Ezek.23.47"/><sup>47</sup>And the company shall stone them with stones, and despatch them with their swords; they shall slay their sons and their daughters, and burn up their houses with fire. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.23.48" data-parsed="Ezek_23_48_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 23.48" id="Ezek.23.48"/><sup>48</sup>Thus will I cause lewdness to cease out of the land, that all women may be taught not to do after your lewdness.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.23.49" data-parsed="Ezek_23_49_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 23.49" id="Ezek.23.49"/><sup>49</sup>And they shall recompense your lewdness upon you, and ye shall bear the sins of your idols; and ye shall know that I am the Lord Jehovah.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>