<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Ezekiel 28</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Ezekiel 28</span></div><div data-next="Ezek.29" data-prev="Ezek.27" data-progress="69.86%" data-shorttitle="" id="Ezek.28" title="Ezekiel 28">
<h2 id="Ezek.28-p0.1">28</h2>
<p id="Ezek.28-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.28.1" data-parsed="Ezek_28_1_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 28.1" id="Ezek.28.1"/><sup>1</sup>The word of Jehovah came again unto me, saying, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.28.2" data-parsed="Ezek_28_2_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 28.2" id="Ezek.28.2"/><sup>2</sup>Son of man,
say unto the prince of Tyre, Thus saith the Lord Jehovah: Because thy heart is lifted up, and thou hast said, I am a god, I sit in the seat of God, in the midst of the seas; yet thou art man, and not God, though thou didst set thy heart as the heart of God;- 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.28.3" data-parsed="Ezek_28_3_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 28.3" id="Ezek.28.3"/><sup>3</sup>behold, thou art wiser than Daniel;
there is no secret that is hidden from thee; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.28.4" data-parsed="Ezek_28_4_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 28.4" id="Ezek.28.4"/><sup>4</sup>by thy wisdom and by thine understanding thou hast gotten thee riches, and hast gotten gold and silver into thy treasures; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.28.5" data-parsed="Ezek_28_5_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 28.5" id="Ezek.28.5"/><sup>5</sup>by thy great wisdom <i>and</i> by thy traffic hast thou increased thy riches, and thy heart is lifted up because of thy riches;-

<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.28.6" data-parsed="Ezek_28_6_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 28.6" id="Ezek.28.6"/><sup>6</sup>therefore thus saith the Lord Jehovah: Because thou hast set thy heart as the heart of God, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.28.7" data-parsed="Ezek_28_7_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 28.7" id="Ezek.28.7"/><sup>7</sup>therefore, behold, I will bring strangers upon thee, the terrible of the nations; and they shall draw their swords against the beauty of thy wisdom, and they shall defile thy brightness. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.28.8" data-parsed="Ezek_28_8_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 28.8" id="Ezek.28.8"/><sup>8</sup>They shall bring thee down to the pit; and thou shalt die the death of them that are slain, in the heart of the seas. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.28.9" data-parsed="Ezek_28_9_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 28.9" id="Ezek.28.9"/><sup>9</sup>Wilt thou yet say before him that slayeth thee, I am God? but thou art man, and not God, in the hand of him that woundeth thee. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.28.10" data-parsed="Ezek_28_10_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 28.10" id="Ezek.28.10"/><sup>10</sup>Thou shalt die the death of the uncircumcised by the hand of strangers: for I have spoken it, saith the Lord Jehovah.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.28.11" data-parsed="Ezek_28_11_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 28.11" id="Ezek.28.11"/><sup>11</sup>Moreover the word of Jehovah came unto me, saying, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.28.12" data-parsed="Ezek_28_12_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 28.12" id="Ezek.28.12"/><sup>12</sup>Son of man,
take up a lamentation over the king of Tyre, and say unto him, Thus saith the Lord Jehovah: Thou sealest up the sum, full of wisdom, and perfect in beauty.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.28.13" data-parsed="Ezek_28_13_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 28.13" id="Ezek.28.13"/><sup>13</sup>Thou wast in Eden, the garden of God; every precious stone was thy covering, the sardius, the topaz, and the diamond, the beryl, the onyx, and the jasper, the sapphire, the emerald, and the carbuncle, and gold: the workmanship of thy tabrets and of thy pipes was in thee; in the day that thou wast created they were prepared. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.28.14" data-parsed="Ezek_28_14_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 28.14" id="Ezek.28.14"/><sup>14</sup>Thou wast the anointed cherub that covereth: and I set thee, <i>so that</i> thou wast upon the holy mountain of God; thou hast walked up and down in the midst of the stones of fire.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.28.15" data-parsed="Ezek_28_15_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 28.15" id="Ezek.28.15"/><sup>15</sup>Thou wast perfect in thy ways from the day that thou wast created, till unrighteousness was found in thee. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.28.16" data-parsed="Ezek_28_16_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 28.16" id="Ezek.28.16"/><sup>16</sup>By the abundance of thy traffic they filled the midst of thee with violence, and thou hast sinned: therefore have I cast thee as profane out of the mountain of God; and I have destroyed thee,
O covering cherub, from the midst of the stones of fire. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.28.17" data-parsed="Ezek_28_17_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 28.17" id="Ezek.28.17"/><sup>17</sup>Thy heart was lifted up because of thy beauty; thou hast corrupted thy wisdom by reason of thy brightness: I have cast thee to the ground; I have laid thee before kings, that they may behold thee. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.28.18" data-parsed="Ezek_28_18_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 28.18" id="Ezek.28.18"/><sup>18</sup>By the multitude of thine iniquities,
in the unrighteousness of thy traffic, thou hast profaned thy sanctuaries;
therefore have I brought forth a fire from the midst of thee; it hath devoured thee, and I have turned thee to ashes upon the earth in the sight of all them that behold thee. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.28.19" data-parsed="Ezek_28_19_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 28.19" id="Ezek.28.19"/><sup>19</sup>All they that know thee among the peoples shall be astonished at thee: thou art become a terror, and thou shalt nevermore have any being. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.28.20" data-parsed="Ezek_28_20_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 28.20" id="Ezek.28.20"/><sup>20</sup>And the word of Jehovah came unto me, saying,

<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.28.21" data-parsed="Ezek_28_21_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 28.21" id="Ezek.28.21"/><sup>21</sup>Son of man, set thy face toward Sidon, and prophesy against it,

<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.28.22" data-parsed="Ezek_28_22_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 28.22" id="Ezek.28.22"/><sup>22</sup>and say, Thus saith the Lord Jehovah: Behold, I am against thee, O Sidon; and I will be glorified in the midst of thee; and they shall know that I am Jehovah, when I shall have executed judgments in her, and shall be sanctified in her. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.28.23" data-parsed="Ezek_28_23_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 28.23" id="Ezek.28.23"/><sup>23</sup>For I will send pestilence into her, and blood into her streets; and the wounded shall fall in the midst of her, with the sword upon her on every side; and they shall know that I am Jehovah. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.28.24" data-parsed="Ezek_28_24_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 28.24" id="Ezek.28.24"/><sup>24</sup>And there shall be no more a pricking brier unto the house of Israel, nor a hurting thorn of any that are round about them, that did despite unto them;
and they shall know that I am the Lord Jehovah. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.28.25" data-parsed="Ezek_28_25_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 28.25" id="Ezek.28.25"/><sup>25</sup>Thus saith the Lord Jehovah: When I shall have gathered the house of Israel from the peoples among whom they are scattered, and shall be sanctified in them in the sight of the nations, then shall they dwell in their own land which I gave to my servant Jacob. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.28.26" data-parsed="Ezek_28_26_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 28.26" id="Ezek.28.26"/><sup>26</sup>And they shall dwell securely therein; yea, they shall build houses, and plant vineyards, and shall dwell securely, when I have executed judgments upon all those that do them despite round about them; and they shall know that I am Jehovah their God.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>