<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Ezekiel 3</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Ezekiel 3</span></div><div data-next="Ezek.4" data-prev="Ezek.2" data-progress="67.42%" data-shorttitle="" id="Ezek.3" title="Ezekiel 3">
<h2 id="Ezek.3-p0.1">3</h2>
<p id="Ezek.3-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.3.1" data-parsed="Ezek_3_1_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 3.1" id="Ezek.3.1"/><sup>1</sup>And he said unto me, Son of man, eat that which thou findest; eat this roll, and go, speak unto the house of Israel. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.3.2" data-parsed="Ezek_3_2_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 3.2" id="Ezek.3.2"/><sup>2</sup>So I opened my mouth,
and he caused me to eat the roll. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.3.3" data-parsed="Ezek_3_3_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 3.3" id="Ezek.3.3"/><sup>3</sup>And he said unto me, Son of man, cause thy belly to eat, and fill thy bowels with this roll that I give thee. Then did I eat it; and it was in my mouth as honey for sweetness. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.3.4" data-parsed="Ezek_3_4_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 3.4" id="Ezek.3.4"/><sup>4</sup>And he said unto me, Son of man, go, get thee unto the house of Israel, and speak with my words unto them. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.3.5" data-parsed="Ezek_3_5_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 3.5" id="Ezek.3.5"/><sup>5</sup>For thou art not sent to a people of a strange speech and of a hard language, but to the house of Israel; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.3.6" data-parsed="Ezek_3_6_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 3.6" id="Ezek.3.6"/><sup>6</sup>not to many peoples of a strange speech and of a hard language, whose words thou canst not understand. Surely, if I sent thee to them, they would hearken unto thee.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.3.7" data-parsed="Ezek_3_7_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 3.7" id="Ezek.3.7"/><sup>7</sup>But the house of Israel will not hearken unto thee; for they will not hearken unto me: for all the house of Israel are of hard forehead and of a stiff heart. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.3.8" data-parsed="Ezek_3_8_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 3.8" id="Ezek.3.8"/><sup>8</sup>Behold, I have made thy face hard against their faces, and thy forehead hard against their foreheads. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.3.9" data-parsed="Ezek_3_9_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 3.9" id="Ezek.3.9"/><sup>9</sup>As an adamant harder than flint have I made thy forehead: fear them not, neither be dismayed at their looks, though they are a rebellious house. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.3.10" data-parsed="Ezek_3_10_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 3.10" id="Ezek.3.10"/><sup>10</sup>Moreover he said unto me,
Son of man, all my words that I shall speak unto thee receive in thy heart,
and hear with thine ears. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.3.11" data-parsed="Ezek_3_11_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 3.11" id="Ezek.3.11"/><sup>11</sup>And go, get thee to them of the captivity,
unto the children of thy people, and speak unto them, and tell them, Thus saith the Lord Jehovah; whether they will hear, or whether they will forbear.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.3.12" data-parsed="Ezek_3_12_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 3.12" id="Ezek.3.12"/><sup>12</sup>Then the Spirit lifted me up, and I heard behind me the voice of a great rushing, <i>saying</i>, Blessed be the glory of Jehovah from his place. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.3.13" data-parsed="Ezek_3_13_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 3.13" id="Ezek.3.13"/><sup>13</sup>And <i>I heard</i> the noise of the wings of the living creatures as they touched one another, and the noise of the wheels beside them, even the noise of a great rushing. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.3.14" data-parsed="Ezek_3_14_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 3.14" id="Ezek.3.14"/><sup>14</sup>So the Spirit lifted me up,
and took me away; and I went in bitterness, in the heat of my spirit; and the hand of Jehovah was strong upon me. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.3.15" data-parsed="Ezek_3_15_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 3.15" id="Ezek.3.15"/><sup>15</sup>Then I came to them of the captivity at Tel-abib, that dwelt by the river Chebar, and to where they dwelt; and I sat there overwhelmed among them seven days. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.3.16" data-parsed="Ezek_3_16_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 3.16" id="Ezek.3.16"/><sup>16</sup>And it came to pass at the end of seven days, that the word of Jehovah came unto me,
saying, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.3.17" data-parsed="Ezek_3_17_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 3.17" id="Ezek.3.17"/><sup>17</sup>Son of man, I have made thee a watchman unto the house of Israel: therefore hear the word at my mouth, and give them warning from me.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.3.18" data-parsed="Ezek_3_18_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 3.18" id="Ezek.3.18"/><sup>18</sup>When I say unto the wicked, Thou shalt surely die; and thou givest him not warning, nor speakest to warn the wicked from his wicked way, to save his life; the same wicked man shall die in his iniquity; but his blood will I require at thy hand. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.3.19" data-parsed="Ezek_3_19_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 3.19" id="Ezek.3.19"/><sup>19</sup>Yet if thou warn the wicked, and he turn not from his wickedness, nor from his wicked way, he shall die in his iniquity; but thou hast delivered thy soul. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.3.20" data-parsed="Ezek_3_20_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 3.20" id="Ezek.3.20"/><sup>20</sup>Again, when a righteous man doth turn from his righteousness, and commit iniquity, and I lay a stumblingblock before him, he shall die: because thou hast not given him warning, he shall die in his sin, and his righteous deeds which he hath done shall not be remembered; but his blood will I require at thy hand. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.3.21" data-parsed="Ezek_3_21_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 3.21" id="Ezek.3.21"/><sup>21</sup>Nevertheless if thou warn the righteous man, that the righteous sin not, and he doth not sin,
he shall surely live, because he took warning; and thou hast delivered thy soul. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.3.22" data-parsed="Ezek_3_22_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 3.22" id="Ezek.3.22"/><sup>22</sup>And the hand of Jehovah was there upon me; and he said unto me,
Arise, go forth into the plain, and I will there talk with thee. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.3.23" data-parsed="Ezek_3_23_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 3.23" id="Ezek.3.23"/><sup>23</sup>Then I arose, and went forth into the plain: and, behold, the glory of Jehovah stood there, as the glory which I saw by the river Chebar; and I fell on my face.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.3.24" data-parsed="Ezek_3_24_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 3.24" id="Ezek.3.24"/><sup>24</sup>Then the Spirit entered into me, and set me upon my feet; and he spake with me, and said unto me, Go, shut thyself within thy house. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.3.25" data-parsed="Ezek_3_25_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 3.25" id="Ezek.3.25"/><sup>25</sup>But thou,
son of man, behold, they shall lay bands upon thee, and shall bind thee with them, and thou shalt not go out among them: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.3.26" data-parsed="Ezek_3_26_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 3.26" id="Ezek.3.26"/><sup>26</sup>and I will make thy tongue cleave to the roof of thy mouth, that thou shalt be dumb, and shalt not be to them a reprover; for they are a rebellious house. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.3.27" data-parsed="Ezek_3_27_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 3.27" id="Ezek.3.27"/><sup>27</sup>But when I speak with thee, I will open thy mouth, and thou shalt say unto them, Thus saith the Lord Jehovah: He that heareth, let him hear; and he that forbeareth, let him forbear: for they are a rebellious house.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>