<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Ezekiel 37</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Ezekiel 37</span></div><div data-next="Ezek.38" data-prev="Ezek.36" data-progress="70.80%" data-shorttitle="" id="Ezek.37" title="Ezekiel 37">
<h2 id="Ezek.37-p0.1">37</h2>
<p id="Ezek.37-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.37.1" data-parsed="Ezek_37_1_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 37.1" id="Ezek.37.1"/><sup>1</sup>The hand of Jehovah was upon me, and he brought me out in the Spirit of Jehovah, and set me down in the midst of the valley; and it was full of bones. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.37.2" data-parsed="Ezek_37_2_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 37.2" id="Ezek.37.2"/><sup>2</sup>And he caused me to pass by them round about: and,
behold, there were very many in the open valley; and, lo, they were very dry.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.37.3" data-parsed="Ezek_37_3_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 37.3" id="Ezek.37.3"/><sup>3</sup>And he said unto me, Son of man, can these bones live? And I answered, O Lord Jehovah, thou knowest. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.37.4" data-parsed="Ezek_37_4_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 37.4" id="Ezek.37.4"/><sup>4</sup>Again he said unto me, Prophesy over these bones, and say unto them, O ye dry bones, hear the word of Jehovah. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.37.5" data-parsed="Ezek_37_5_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 37.5" id="Ezek.37.5"/><sup>5</sup>Thus saith the Lord Jehovah unto these bones: Behold, I will cause breath to enter into you, and ye shall live. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.37.6" data-parsed="Ezek_37_6_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 37.6" id="Ezek.37.6"/><sup>6</sup>And I will lay sinews upon you, and will bring up flesh upon you, and cover you with skin, and put breath in you, and ye shall live; and ye shall know that I am Jehovah. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.37.7" data-parsed="Ezek_37_7_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 37.7" id="Ezek.37.7"/><sup>7</sup>So I prophesied as I was commanded: and as I prophesied, there was a noise, and, behold, an earthquake; and the bones came together, bone to its bone. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.37.8" data-parsed="Ezek_37_8_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 37.8" id="Ezek.37.8"/><sup>8</sup>And I beheld,
and, lo, there were sinews upon them, and flesh came up, and skin covered them above; but there was no breath in them. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.37.9" data-parsed="Ezek_37_9_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 37.9" id="Ezek.37.9"/><sup>9</sup>Then said he unto me,
Prophesy unto the wind, prophesy, son of man, and say to the wind, Thus saith the Lord Jehovah: Come from the four winds, O breath, and breathe upon these slain, that they may live. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.37.10" data-parsed="Ezek_37_10_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 37.10" id="Ezek.37.10"/><sup>10</sup>So I prophesied as he commanded me, and the breath came into them, and they lived, and stood up upon their feet, an exceeding great army. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.37.11" data-parsed="Ezek_37_11_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 37.11" id="Ezek.37.11"/><sup>11</sup>Then he said unto me, Son of man, these bones are the whole house of Israel: behold, they say, Our bones are dried up, and our hope is lost; we are clean cut off. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.37.12" data-parsed="Ezek_37_12_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 37.12" id="Ezek.37.12"/><sup>12</sup>Therefore prophesy, and say unto them, Thus saith the Lord Jehovah: Behold, I will open your graves, and cause you to come up out of your graves, O my people; and I will bring you into the land of Israel. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.37.13" data-parsed="Ezek_37_13_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 37.13" id="Ezek.37.13"/><sup>13</sup>And ye shall know that I am Jehovah, when I have opened your graves, and caused you to come up out of your graves, O my people.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.37.14" data-parsed="Ezek_37_14_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 37.14" id="Ezek.37.14"/><sup>14</sup>And I will put my Spirit in you, and ye shall live, and I will place you in your own land: and ye shall know that I, Jehovah, have spoken it and performed it, saith Jehovah. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.37.15" data-parsed="Ezek_37_15_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 37.15" id="Ezek.37.15"/><sup>15</sup>The word of Jehovah came again unto me,
saying, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.37.16" data-parsed="Ezek_37_16_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 37.16" id="Ezek.37.16"/><sup>16</sup>And thou, son of man, take thee one stick, and write upon it,
For Judah, and for the children of Israel his companions: then take another stick, and write upon it, For Joseph, the stick of Ephraim, and <i>for</i>
all the house of Israel his companions: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.37.17" data-parsed="Ezek_37_17_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 37.17" id="Ezek.37.17"/><sup>17</sup>and join them for thee one to another into one stick, that they may become one in thy hand. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.37.18" data-parsed="Ezek_37_18_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 37.18" id="Ezek.37.18"/><sup>18</sup>And when the children of thy people shall speak unto thee, saying, Wilt thou not show us what thou meanest by these? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.37.19" data-parsed="Ezek_37_19_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 37.19" id="Ezek.37.19"/><sup>19</sup>say unto them, Thus saith the Lord Jehovah: Behold, I will take the stick of Joseph, which is in the hand of Ephraim, and the tribes of Israel his companions; and I will put them with it, <i>even</i> with the stick of Judah, and make them one stick, and they shall be one in my hand. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.37.20" data-parsed="Ezek_37_20_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 37.20" id="Ezek.37.20"/><sup>20</sup>And the sticks whereon thou writest shall be in thy hand before their eyes. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.37.21" data-parsed="Ezek_37_21_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 37.21" id="Ezek.37.21"/><sup>21</sup>And say unto them, Thus saith the Lord Jehovah: Behold, I will take the children of Israel from among the nations,
whither they are gone, and will gather them on every side, and bring them into their own land: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.37.22" data-parsed="Ezek_37_22_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 37.22" id="Ezek.37.22"/><sup>22</sup>and I will make them one nation in the land, upon the mountains of Israel; and one king shall be king to them all; and they shall be no more two nations, neither shall they be divided into two kingdoms any more at all; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.37.23" data-parsed="Ezek_37_23_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 37.23" id="Ezek.37.23"/><sup>23</sup>neither shall they defile themselves any more with their idols, nor with their detestable things, nor with any of their transgressions; but I will save them out of all their dwelling-places,
wherein they have sinned, and will cleanse them: so shall they be my people,
and I will be their God. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.37.24" data-parsed="Ezek_37_24_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 37.24" id="Ezek.37.24"/><sup>24</sup>And my servant David shall be king over them;
and they all shall have one shepherd: they shall also walk in mine ordinances, and observe my statutes, and do them. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.37.25" data-parsed="Ezek_37_25_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 37.25" id="Ezek.37.25"/><sup>25</sup>And they shall dwell in the land that I have given unto Jacob my servant, wherein your fathers dwelt; and they shall dwell therein, they, and their children, and their children's children, for ever: and David my servant shall be their prince for ever. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.37.26" data-parsed="Ezek_37_26_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 37.26" id="Ezek.37.26"/><sup>26</sup>Moreover I will make a covenant of peace with them; it shall be an everlasting covenant with them; and I will place them, and multiply them,
and will set my sanctuary in the midst of them for evermore. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.37.27" data-parsed="Ezek_37_27_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 37.27" id="Ezek.37.27"/><sup>27</sup>My tabernacle also shall be with them; and I will be their God, and they shall be my people. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.37.28" data-parsed="Ezek_37_28_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 37.28" id="Ezek.37.28"/><sup>28</sup>And the nations shall know that I am Jehovah that sanctifieth Israel, when my sanctuary shall be in the midst of them for evermore.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>