<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Ezekiel 11</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Ezekiel 11</span></div><div data-next="Ezek.12" data-prev="Ezek.10" data-progress="68.02%" data-shorttitle="" id="Ezek.11" title="Ezekiel 11">
<h2 id="Ezek.11-p0.1">11</h2>
<p id="Ezek.11-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.11.1" data-parsed="Ezek_11_1_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 11.1" id="Ezek.11.1"/><sup>1</sup>Moreover the Spirit lifted me up, and brought me unto the east gate of Jehovah's house, which looketh eastward: and behold, at the door of the gate five and twenty men; and I saw in the midst of them Jaazaniah the son of Azzur, and Pelatiah the son of Benaiah, princes of the people.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.11.2" data-parsed="Ezek_11_2_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 11.2" id="Ezek.11.2"/><sup>2</sup>And he said unto me, Son of man, these are the men that devise iniquity,
and that give wicked counsel in this city; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.11.3" data-parsed="Ezek_11_3_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 11.3" id="Ezek.11.3"/><sup>3</sup>that say, <i>The time</i> is not near to build houses: this <i>city</i> is the caldron, and we are the flesh. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.11.4" data-parsed="Ezek_11_4_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 11.4" id="Ezek.11.4"/><sup>4</sup>Therefore prophesy against them, prophesy, O son of man. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.11.5" data-parsed="Ezek_11_5_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 11.5" id="Ezek.11.5"/><sup>5</sup>And the Spirit of Jehovah fell upon me, and he said unto me, Speak, Thus saith Jehovah: Thus have ye said, O house of Israel; for I know the things that come into your mind. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.11.6" data-parsed="Ezek_11_6_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 11.6" id="Ezek.11.6"/><sup>6</sup>Ye have multiplied your slain in this city, and ye have filled the streets thereof with the slain. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.11.7" data-parsed="Ezek_11_7_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 11.7" id="Ezek.11.7"/><sup>7</sup>Therefore thus saith the Lord Jehovah: Your slain whom ye have laid in the midst of it, they are the flesh, and this <i>city</i> is the caldron; but ye shall be brought forth out of the midst of it. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.11.8" data-parsed="Ezek_11_8_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 11.8" id="Ezek.11.8"/><sup>8</sup>Ye have feared the sword; and I will bring the sword upon you, saith the Lord Jehovah. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.11.9" data-parsed="Ezek_11_9_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 11.9" id="Ezek.11.9"/><sup>9</sup>And I will bring you forth out of the midst thereof, and deliver you into the hands of strangers, and will execute judgments among you. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.11.10" data-parsed="Ezek_11_10_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 11.10" id="Ezek.11.10"/><sup>10</sup>Ye shall fall by the sword; I will judge you in the border of Israel; and ye shall know that I am Jehovah. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.11.11" data-parsed="Ezek_11_11_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 11.11" id="Ezek.11.11"/><sup>11</sup>This <i>city</i> shall not be your caldron, neither shall ye be the flesh in the midst thereof; I will judge you in the border of Israel; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.11.12" data-parsed="Ezek_11_12_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 11.12" id="Ezek.11.12"/><sup>12</sup>and ye shall know that I am Jehovah: for ye have not walked in my statutes, neither have ye executed mine ordinances, but have done after the ordinances of the nations that are round about you. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.11.13" data-parsed="Ezek_11_13_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 11.13" id="Ezek.11.13"/><sup>13</sup>And it came to pass, when I prophesied, that Pelatiah the son of Benaiah died. Then fell I down upon my face, and cried with a loud voice, and said, Ah Lord Jehovah! wilt thou make a full end of the remnant of Israel? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.11.14" data-parsed="Ezek_11_14_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 11.14" id="Ezek.11.14"/><sup>14</sup>And the word of Jehovah came unto me, saying, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.11.15" data-parsed="Ezek_11_15_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 11.15" id="Ezek.11.15"/><sup>15</sup>Son of man, thy brethren, even thy brethren, the men of thy kindred, and all the house of Israel, all of them, <i>are they</i> unto whom the inhabitants of Jerusalem have said, Get you far from Jehovah; unto us is this land given for a possession. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.11.16" data-parsed="Ezek_11_16_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 11.16" id="Ezek.11.16"/><sup>16</sup>Therefore say, Thus saith the Lord Jehovah: Whereas I have removed them far off among the nations, and whereas I have scattered them among the countries, yet will I be to them a sanctuary for a little while in the countries where they are come. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.11.17" data-parsed="Ezek_11_17_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 11.17" id="Ezek.11.17"/><sup>17</sup>Therefore say,
Thus saith the Lord Jehovah: I will gather you from the peoples, and assemble you out of the countries where ye have been scattered, and I will give you the land of Israel. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.11.18" data-parsed="Ezek_11_18_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 11.18" id="Ezek.11.18"/><sup>18</sup>And they shall come thither, and they shall take away all the detestable things thereof and all the abominations thereof from thence. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.11.19" data-parsed="Ezek_11_19_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 11.19" id="Ezek.11.19"/><sup>19</sup>And I will give them one heart, and I will put a new spirit within you; and I will take the stony heart out of their flesh, and will give them a heart of flesh; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.11.20" data-parsed="Ezek_11_20_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 11.20" id="Ezek.11.20"/><sup>20</sup>that they may walk in my statutes, and keep mine ordinances, and do them: and they shall be my people, and I will be their God. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.11.21" data-parsed="Ezek_11_21_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 11.21" id="Ezek.11.21"/><sup>21</sup>But as for them whose heart walketh after the heart of their detestable things and their abominations, I will bring their way upon their own heads, saith the Lord Jehovah. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.11.22" data-parsed="Ezek_11_22_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 11.22" id="Ezek.11.22"/><sup>22</sup>Then did the cherubim lift up their wings, and the wheels were beside them; and the glory of the God of Israel was over them above. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.11.23" data-parsed="Ezek_11_23_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 11.23" id="Ezek.11.23"/><sup>23</sup>And the glory of Jehovah went up from the midst of the city, and stood upon the mountain which is on the east side of the city.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.11.24" data-parsed="Ezek_11_24_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 11.24" id="Ezek.11.24"/><sup>24</sup>And the Spirit lifted me up, and brought me in the vision by the Spirit of God into Chaldea, to them of the captivity. So the vision that I had seen went up from me. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.11.25" data-parsed="Ezek_11_25_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 11.25" id="Ezek.11.25"/><sup>25</sup>Then I spake unto them of the captivity all the things that Jehovah had showed me.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>