<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Ezekiel 30</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Ezekiel 30</span></div><div data-next="Ezek.31" data-prev="Ezek.29" data-progress="70.05%" data-shorttitle="" id="Ezek.30" title="Ezekiel 30">
<h2 id="Ezek.30-p0.1">30</h2>
<p id="Ezek.30-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.30.1" data-parsed="Ezek_30_1_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 30.1" id="Ezek.30.1"/><sup>1</sup>The word of Jehovah came again unto me, saying, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.30.2" data-parsed="Ezek_30_2_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 30.2" id="Ezek.30.2"/><sup>2</sup>Son of man,
prophesy, and say, Thus saith the Lord Jehovah: Wail ye, Alas for the day!

<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.30.3" data-parsed="Ezek_30_3_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 30.3" id="Ezek.30.3"/><sup>3</sup>For the day is near, even the day of Jehovah is near; it shall be a day of clouds, a time of the nations. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.30.4" data-parsed="Ezek_30_4_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 30.4" id="Ezek.30.4"/><sup>4</sup>And a sword shall come upon Egypt, and anguish shall be in Ethiopia, when the slain shall fall in Egypt; and they shall take away her multitude, and her foundations shall be broken down.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.30.5" data-parsed="Ezek_30_5_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 30.5" id="Ezek.30.5"/><sup>5</sup>Ethiopia, and Put, and Lud, and all the mingled people, and Cub, and the children of the land that is in league, shall fall with them by the sword.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.30.6" data-parsed="Ezek_30_6_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 30.6" id="Ezek.30.6"/><sup>6</sup>Thus saith Jehovah: They also that uphold Egypt shall fall; and the pride of her power shall come down: from the tower of Seveneh shall they fall in it by the sword, saith the Lord Jehovah. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.30.7" data-parsed="Ezek_30_7_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 30.7" id="Ezek.30.7"/><sup>7</sup>And they shall be desolate in the midst of the countries that are desolate; and her cities shall be in the midst of the cities that are wasted. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.30.8" data-parsed="Ezek_30_8_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 30.8" id="Ezek.30.8"/><sup>8</sup>And they shall know at I am Jehovah, when I have set a fire in Egypt, and all her helpers are destroyed.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.30.9" data-parsed="Ezek_30_9_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 30.9" id="Ezek.30.9"/><sup>9</sup>In that day shall messengers go forth from before me in ships to make the careless Ethiopians afraid; and there shall be anguish upon them, as in the day of Egypt; for, lo, it cometh. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.30.10" data-parsed="Ezek_30_10_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 30.10" id="Ezek.30.10"/><sup>10</sup>Thus saith the Lord Jehovah: I will also make the multitude of Egypt to cease, by the hand of Nebuchadrezzar king of Babylon. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.30.11" data-parsed="Ezek_30_11_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 30.11" id="Ezek.30.11"/><sup>11</sup>He and his people with him, the terrible of the nations, shall be brought in to destroy the land; and they shall draw their swords against Egypt, and fill the land with the slain. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.30.12" data-parsed="Ezek_30_12_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 30.12" id="Ezek.30.12"/><sup>12</sup>And I will make the rivers dry, and will sell the land into the hand of evil men; and I will make the land desolate, and all that is therein, by the hand of strangers: I,
Jehovah, have spoken it. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.30.13" data-parsed="Ezek_30_13_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 30.13" id="Ezek.30.13"/><sup>13</sup>Thus saith the Lord Jehovah: I will also destroy the idols, and I will cause the images to cease from Memphis; and there shall be no more a prince from the land of Egypt: and I will put a fear in the land of Egypt. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.30.14" data-parsed="Ezek_30_14_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 30.14" id="Ezek.30.14"/><sup>14</sup>And I will make Pathros desolate, and will set a fire in Zoan, and will execute judgments upon No. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.30.15" data-parsed="Ezek_30_15_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 30.15" id="Ezek.30.15"/><sup>15</sup>And I will pour my wrath upon Sin, the stronghold of Egypt; and I will cut off the multitude of No. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.30.16" data-parsed="Ezek_30_16_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 30.16" id="Ezek.30.16"/><sup>16</sup>And I will set a fire in Egypt: Sin shall be in great anguish, and No shall be broken up; and Memphis <i>shall have</i> adversaries in the day-time. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.30.17" data-parsed="Ezek_30_17_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 30.17" id="Ezek.30.17"/><sup>17</sup>The young men of Aven and of Pibeseth shall fall by the sword; and these <i>cities</i> shall go into captivity. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.30.18" data-parsed="Ezek_30_18_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 30.18" id="Ezek.30.18"/><sup>18</sup>At Tehaphnehes also the day shall withdraw itself, when I shall break there the yokes of Egypt, and the pride of her power shall cease in her: as for her, a cloud shall cover her, and her daughters shall go into captivity. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.30.19" data-parsed="Ezek_30_19_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 30.19" id="Ezek.30.19"/><sup>19</sup>Thus will I execute judgments upon Egypt; and they shall know that I am Jehovah.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.30.20" data-parsed="Ezek_30_20_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 30.20" id="Ezek.30.20"/><sup>20</sup>And it came to pass in the eleventh year, in the first <i>month</i>,
in the seventh <i>day</i> of the month, that the word of Jehovah came unto me, saying, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.30.21" data-parsed="Ezek_30_21_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 30.21" id="Ezek.30.21"/><sup>21</sup>Son of man, I have broken the arm of Pharaoh king of Egypt;
and, lo, it hath not been bound up, to apply <i>healing</i> medicines, to put a bandage to bind it, that it be strong to hold the sword.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.30.22" data-parsed="Ezek_30_22_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 30.22" id="Ezek.30.22"/><sup>22</sup>Therefore thus saith the Lord Jehovah: Behold, I am against Pharaoh king of Egypt, and will break his arms, the strong <i>arm</i>, and that which was broken; and I will cause the sword to fall out of his hand.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.30.23" data-parsed="Ezek_30_23_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 30.23" id="Ezek.30.23"/><sup>23</sup>And I will scatter the Egyptians among the nations, and will disperse them through the countries. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.30.24" data-parsed="Ezek_30_24_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 30.24" id="Ezek.30.24"/><sup>24</sup>And I will strengthen the arms of the king of Babylon, and put my sword in his hand: but I will break the arms of Pharaoh, and he shall groan before him with the groanings of a deadly wounded man. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.30.25" data-parsed="Ezek_30_25_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 30.25" id="Ezek.30.25"/><sup>25</sup>And I will hold up the arms of the king of Babylon; and the arms of Pharaoh shall fall down; and they shall know that I am Jehovah, when I shall put my sword into the hand of the king of Babylon, and he shall stretch it out upon the land of Egypt. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.30.26" data-parsed="Ezek_30_26_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 30.26" id="Ezek.30.26"/><sup>26</sup>And I will scatter the Egyptians among the nations, and disperse them through the countries; and they shall know that I am Jehovah.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>