<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Ezekiel 38</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Ezekiel 38</span></div><div data-next="Ezek.39" data-prev="Ezek.37" data-progress="70.91%" data-shorttitle="" id="Ezek.38" title="Ezekiel 38">
<h2 id="Ezek.38-p0.1">38</h2>
<p id="Ezek.38-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.38.1" data-parsed="Ezek_38_1_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 38.1" id="Ezek.38.1"/><sup>1</sup>And the word of Jehovah came unto me, saying, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.38.2" data-parsed="Ezek_38_2_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 38.2" id="Ezek.38.2"/><sup>2</sup>Son of man, set thy face toward Gog, of the land of Magog, the prince of Rosh, Meshech, and Tubal, and prophesy against him, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.38.3" data-parsed="Ezek_38_3_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 38.3" id="Ezek.38.3"/><sup>3</sup>and say, Thus saith the Lord Jehovah:
Behold, I am against thee, O Gog, prince of Rosh, Meshech, and Tubal:

<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.38.4" data-parsed="Ezek_38_4_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 38.4" id="Ezek.38.4"/><sup>4</sup>and I will turn thee about, and put hooks into thy jaws, and I will bring thee forth, and all thine army, horses and horsemen, all of them clothed in full armor, a great company with buckler and shield, all of them handling swords; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.38.5" data-parsed="Ezek_38_5_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 38.5" id="Ezek.38.5"/><sup>5</sup>Persia, Cush, and Put with them, all of them with shield and helmet; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.38.6" data-parsed="Ezek_38_6_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 38.6" id="Ezek.38.6"/><sup>6</sup>Gomer, and all his hordes; the house of Togarmah in the uttermost parts of the north, and all his hordes; even many peoples with thee. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.38.7" data-parsed="Ezek_38_7_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 38.7" id="Ezek.38.7"/><sup>7</sup>Be thou prepared, yea, prepare thyself, thou, and all thy companies that are assembled unto thee, and be thou a guard unto them.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.38.8" data-parsed="Ezek_38_8_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 38.8" id="Ezek.38.8"/><sup>8</sup>After many days thou shalt be visited: in the latter years thou shalt come into the land that is brought back from the sword, that is gathered out of many peoples, upon the mountains of Israel, which have been a continual waste; but it is brought forth out of the peoples, and they shall dwell securely, all of them. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.38.9" data-parsed="Ezek_38_9_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 38.9" id="Ezek.38.9"/><sup>9</sup>And thou shalt ascend, thou shalt come like a storm, thou shalt be like a cloud to cover the land, thou, and all thy hordes, and many peoples with thee. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.38.10" data-parsed="Ezek_38_10_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 38.10" id="Ezek.38.10"/><sup>10</sup>Thus saith the Lord Jehovah: It shall come to pass in that day, that things shall come into thy mind, and thou shalt devise an evil device: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.38.11" data-parsed="Ezek_38_11_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 38.11" id="Ezek.38.11"/><sup>11</sup>and thou shalt say, I will go up to the land of unwalled villages; I will go to them that are at rest, that dwell securely, all of them dwelling without walls, and having neither bars nor gates; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.38.12" data-parsed="Ezek_38_12_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 38.12" id="Ezek.38.12"/><sup>12</sup>to take the spoil and to take the prey; to turn thy hand against the waste places that are <i>now</i> inhabited, and against the people that are gathered out of the nations, that have gotten cattle and goods, that dwell in the middle of the earth. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.38.13" data-parsed="Ezek_38_13_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 38.13" id="Ezek.38.13"/><sup>13</sup>Sheba, and Dedan, and the merchants of Tarshish, with all the young lions thereof, shall say unto thee, Art thou come to take the spoil? hast thou assembled thy company to take the prey? to carry away silver and gold, to take away cattle and goods, to take great spoil? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.38.14" data-parsed="Ezek_38_14_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 38.14" id="Ezek.38.14"/><sup>14</sup>Therefore, son of man, prophesy, and say unto Gog, Thus saith the Lord Jehovah: In that day when my people Israel dwelleth securely, shalt thou not know it? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.38.15" data-parsed="Ezek_38_15_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 38.15" id="Ezek.38.15"/><sup>15</sup>And thou shalt come from thy place out of the uttermost parts of the north, thou, and many peoples with thee, all of them riding upon horses, a great company and a mighty army; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.38.16" data-parsed="Ezek_38_16_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 38.16" id="Ezek.38.16"/><sup>16</sup>and thou shalt come up against my people Israel, as a cloud to cover the land: it shall come to pass in the latter days, that I will bring thee against my land, that the nations may know me, when I shall be sanctified in thee, O Gog, before their eyes. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.38.17" data-parsed="Ezek_38_17_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 38.17" id="Ezek.38.17"/><sup>17</sup>Thus saith the Lord Jehovah: Art thou he of whom I spake in old time by my servants the prophets of Israel, that prophesied in those days for <i>many</i> years that I would bring thee against them? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.38.18" data-parsed="Ezek_38_18_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 38.18" id="Ezek.38.18"/><sup>18</sup>And it shall come to pass in that day, when Gog shall come against the land of Israel,
saith the Lord Jehovah, that my wrath shall come up into my nostrils.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.38.19" data-parsed="Ezek_38_19_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 38.19" id="Ezek.38.19"/><sup>19</sup>For in my jealousy and in the fire of my wrath have I spoken, Surely in that day there shall be a great shaking in the land of Israel; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.38.20" data-parsed="Ezek_38_20_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 38.20" id="Ezek.38.20"/><sup>20</sup>so that the fishes of the sea, and the birds of the heavens, and the beasts of the field, and all creeping things that creep upon the earth, and all the men that are upon the face of the earth, shall shake at my presence, and the mountains shall be thrown down, and the steep places shall fall, and every wall shall fall to the ground. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.38.21" data-parsed="Ezek_38_21_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 38.21" id="Ezek.38.21"/><sup>21</sup>And I will call for a sword against him unto all my mountains, saith the Lord Jehovah: every man's sword shall be against his brother. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.38.22" data-parsed="Ezek_38_22_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 38.22" id="Ezek.38.22"/><sup>22</sup>And with pestilence and with blood will I enter into judgment with him; and I will rain upon him, and upon his hordes, and upon the many peoples that are with him, an overflowing shower, and great hailstones, fire, and brimstone. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.38.23" data-parsed="Ezek_38_23_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 38.23" id="Ezek.38.23"/><sup>23</sup>And I will magnify myself, and sanctify myself, and I will make myself known in the eyes of many nations;
and they shall know that I am Jehovah.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>