<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Ezekiel 2</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Ezekiel 2</span></div><div data-next="Ezek.3" data-prev="Ezek.1" data-progress="67.38%" data-shorttitle="" id="Ezek.2" title="Ezekiel 2">
<h2 id="Ezek.2-p0.1">2</h2>
<p id="Ezek.2-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.2.1" data-parsed="Ezek_2_1_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 2.1" id="Ezek.2.1"/><sup>1</sup>And he said unto me, Son of man, stand upon thy feet, and I will speak with thee. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.2.2" data-parsed="Ezek_2_2_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 2.2" id="Ezek.2.2"/><sup>2</sup>And the Spirit entered into me when he spake unto me,
and set me upon my feet; and I heard him that spake unto me. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.2.3" data-parsed="Ezek_2_3_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 2.3" id="Ezek.2.3"/><sup>3</sup>And he said unto me, Son of man, I send thee to the children of Israel, to nations that are rebellious, which have rebelled against me: they and their fathers have transgressed against me even unto this very day. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.2.4" data-parsed="Ezek_2_4_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 2.4" id="Ezek.2.4"/><sup>4</sup>And the children are impudent and stiffhearted: I do sent thee unto them; and thou shalt say unto them, Thus saith the Lord Jehovah. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.2.5" data-parsed="Ezek_2_5_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 2.5" id="Ezek.2.5"/><sup>5</sup>And they, whether they will hear, or whether they will forbear, (for they are a rebellious house,) yet shall know that there hath been a prophet among them. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.2.6" data-parsed="Ezek_2_6_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 2.6" id="Ezek.2.6"/><sup>6</sup>And thou, son of man, be not afraid of them, neither be afraid of their words, though briers and thorns are with thee, and thou dost dwell among scorpions: be not afraid of their words, nor be dismayed at their looks, though they are a rebellious house.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.2.7" data-parsed="Ezek_2_7_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 2.7" id="Ezek.2.7"/><sup>7</sup>And thou shalt speak my words unto them, whether they will hear, or whether they will forbear; for they are most rebellious. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.2.8" data-parsed="Ezek_2_8_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 2.8" id="Ezek.2.8"/><sup>8</sup>But thou, son of man, hear what I say unto thee; be not thou rebellious like that rebellious house: open thy mouth, and eat that which I give thee. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.2.9" data-parsed="Ezek_2_9_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 2.9" id="Ezek.2.9"/><sup>9</sup>And when I looked, behold, a hand was put forth unto me; and, lo, a roll of a book was therein; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.2.10" data-parsed="Ezek_2_10_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 2.10" id="Ezek.2.10"/><sup>10</sup>And he spread it before me: and it was written within and without; and there were written therein lamentations, and mourning, and woe.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>