<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Ezekiel 14</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Ezekiel 14</span></div><div data-next="Ezek.15" data-prev="Ezek.13" data-progress="68.30%" data-shorttitle="" id="Ezek.14" title="Ezekiel 14">
<h2 id="Ezek.14-p0.1">14</h2>
<p id="Ezek.14-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.14.1" data-parsed="Ezek_14_1_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 14.1" id="Ezek.14.1"/><sup>1</sup>Then came certain of the elders of Israel unto me, and sat before me. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.14.2" data-parsed="Ezek_14_2_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 14.2" id="Ezek.14.2"/><sup>2</sup>And the word of Jehovah came unto me, saying, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.14.3" data-parsed="Ezek_14_3_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 14.3" id="Ezek.14.3"/><sup>3</sup>Son of man, these men have taken their idols into their heart, and put the stumblingblock of their iniquity before their face: should I be inquired of at all by them?

<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.14.4" data-parsed="Ezek_14_4_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 14.4" id="Ezek.14.4"/><sup>4</sup>Therefore speak unto them, and say unto them, Thus saith the Lord Jehovah: Every man of the house of Israel that taketh his idols into his heart, and putteth the stumblingblock of his iniquity before his face, and cometh to the prophet; I Jehovah will answer him therein according to the multitude of his idols; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.14.5" data-parsed="Ezek_14_5_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 14.5" id="Ezek.14.5"/><sup>5</sup>that I may take the house of Israel in their own heart, because they are all estranged from me through their idols.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.14.6" data-parsed="Ezek_14_6_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 14.6" id="Ezek.14.6"/><sup>6</sup>Therefore say unto the house of Israel, Thus saith the Lord Jehovah:
Return ye, and turn yourselves from your idols; and turn away your faces from all your abominations. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.14.7" data-parsed="Ezek_14_7_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 14.7" id="Ezek.14.7"/><sup>7</sup>For every one of the house of Israel, or of the strangers that sojourn in Israel, that separateth himself from me, and taketh his idols into his heart, and putteth the stumblingblock of his iniquity before his face, and cometh to the prophet to inquire for himself of me; I Jehovah will answer him by myself: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.14.8" data-parsed="Ezek_14_8_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 14.8" id="Ezek.14.8"/><sup>8</sup>and I will set my face against that man, and will make him an astonishment, for a sign and a proverb, and I will cut him off from the midst of my people; and ye shall know that I am Jehovah.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.14.9" data-parsed="Ezek_14_9_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 14.9" id="Ezek.14.9"/><sup>9</sup>And if the prophet be deceived and speak a word, I, Jehovah, have deceived that prophet, and I will stretch out my hand upon him, and will destroy him from the midst of my people Israel. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.14.10" data-parsed="Ezek_14_10_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 14.10" id="Ezek.14.10"/><sup>10</sup>And they shall bear their iniquity: the iniquity of the prophet shall be even as the iniquity of him that seeketh <i>unto him</i>; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.14.11" data-parsed="Ezek_14_11_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 14.11" id="Ezek.14.11"/><sup>11</sup>that the house of Israel may go no more astray from me, neither defile themselves any more with all their transgressions; but that they may be my people, and I may be their God, saith the Lord Jehovah. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.14.12" data-parsed="Ezek_14_12_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 14.12" id="Ezek.14.12"/><sup>12</sup>And the word of Jehovah came unto me, saying,

<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.14.13" data-parsed="Ezek_14_13_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 14.13" id="Ezek.14.13"/><sup>13</sup>Son of man, when a land sinneth against me by committing a trespass,
and I stretch out my hand upon it, and break the staff of the bread thereof,
and send famine upon it, and cut off from it man and beast; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.14.14" data-parsed="Ezek_14_14_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 14.14" id="Ezek.14.14"/><sup>14</sup>though these three men, Noah, Daniel, and Job, were in it, they should deliver but their own souls by their righteousness, saith the Lord Jehovah. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.14.15" data-parsed="Ezek_14_15_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 14.15" id="Ezek.14.15"/><sup>15</sup>If I cause evil beasts to pass through the land, and they ravage it, and it be made desolate, so that no man may pass through because of the beasts;

<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.14.16" data-parsed="Ezek_14_16_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 14.16" id="Ezek.14.16"/><sup>16</sup>though these three men were in it, as I live, saith the Lord Jehovah,
they should deliver neither sons nor daughters; they only should be delivered, but the land should be desolate. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.14.17" data-parsed="Ezek_14_17_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 14.17" id="Ezek.14.17"/><sup>17</sup>Or if I bring a sword upon that land, and say, Sword, go through the land; so that I cut off from it man and beast; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.14.18" data-parsed="Ezek_14_18_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 14.18" id="Ezek.14.18"/><sup>18</sup>though these three men were in it, as I live, saith the Lord Jehovah, they should deliver neither sons nor daughters, but they only should be delivered themselves. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.14.19" data-parsed="Ezek_14_19_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 14.19" id="Ezek.14.19"/><sup>19</sup>Or if I send a pestilence into that land, and pour out my wrath upon it in blood, to cut off from it man and beast;

<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.14.20" data-parsed="Ezek_14_20_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 14.20" id="Ezek.14.20"/><sup>20</sup>though Noah, Daniel, and Job, were in it, as I live, saith the Lord Jehovah, they should deliver neither son nor daughter; they should but deliver their own souls by their righteousness. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.14.21" data-parsed="Ezek_14_21_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 14.21" id="Ezek.14.21"/><sup>21</sup>For thus saith the Lord Jehovah: How much more when I send my four sore judgments upon Jerusalem, the sword, and the famine, and the evil beasts, and the pestilence, to cut off from it man and beast! 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.14.22" data-parsed="Ezek_14_22_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 14.22" id="Ezek.14.22"/><sup>22</sup>Yet, behold, therein shall be left a remnant that shall be carried forth, both sons and daughters: behold, they shall come forth unto you, and ye shall see their way and their doings; and ye shall be comforted concerning the evil that I have brought upon Jerusalem, even concerning all that I have brought upon it. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.14.23" data-parsed="Ezek_14_23_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 14.23" id="Ezek.14.23"/><sup>23</sup>And they shall comfort you,
when ye see their way and their doings; and ye shall know that I have not done without cause all that I have done in it, saith the Lord Jehovah.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>