<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Ezekiel 4</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Ezekiel 4</span></div><div data-next="Ezek.5" data-prev="Ezek.3" data-progress="67.52%" data-shorttitle="" id="Ezek.4" title="Ezekiel 4">
<h2 id="Ezek.4-p0.1">4</h2>
<p id="Ezek.4-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.4.1" data-parsed="Ezek_4_1_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 4.1" id="Ezek.4.1"/><sup>1</sup>Thou also, son of man, take thee a tile, and lay it before thee, and portray upon it a city, even Jerusalem: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.4.2" data-parsed="Ezek_4_2_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 4.2" id="Ezek.4.2"/><sup>2</sup>and lay siege against it, and build forts against it, and cast up a mound against it; set camps also against it, and plant battering rams against it round about. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.4.3" data-parsed="Ezek_4_3_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 4.3" id="Ezek.4.3"/><sup>3</sup>And take thou unto thee an iron pan, and set it for a wall of iron between thee and the city: and set thy face toward it, and it shall be besieged, and thou shalt lay siege against it. This shall be a sign to the house of Israel.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.4.4" data-parsed="Ezek_4_4_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 4.4" id="Ezek.4.4"/><sup>4</sup>Moreover lie thou upon thy left side, and lay the iniquity of the house of Israel upon it; <i>according to</i> the number of the days that thou shalt lie upon it, thou shalt bear their iniquity. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.4.5" data-parsed="Ezek_4_5_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 4.5" id="Ezek.4.5"/><sup>5</sup>For I have appointed the years of their iniquity to be unto thee a number of days, even three hundred and ninety days: so shalt thou bear the iniquity of the house of Israel. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.4.6" data-parsed="Ezek_4_6_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 4.6" id="Ezek.4.6"/><sup>6</sup>And again, when thou hast accomplished these, thou shalt lie on thy right side, and shalt bear the iniquity of the house of Judah: forty days, each day for a year, have I appointed it unto thee. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.4.7" data-parsed="Ezek_4_7_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 4.7" id="Ezek.4.7"/><sup>7</sup>And thou shalt set thy face toward the siege of Jerusalem, with thine arm uncovered; and thou shalt prophesy against it. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.4.8" data-parsed="Ezek_4_8_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 4.8" id="Ezek.4.8"/><sup>8</sup>And, behold, I lay bands upon thee, and thou shalt not turn thee from one side to the other, till thou hast accomplished the days of thy siege. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.4.9" data-parsed="Ezek_4_9_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 4.9" id="Ezek.4.9"/><sup>9</sup>Take thou also unto thee wheat, and barley, and beans, and lentils, and millet, and spelt, and put them in one vessel, and make thee bread thereof; <i>according to</i> the number of the days that thou shalt lie upon thy side, even three hundred and ninety days,
shalt thou eat thereof. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.4.10" data-parsed="Ezek_4_10_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 4.10" id="Ezek.4.10"/><sup>10</sup>And thy food which thou shalt eat shall be by weight, twenty shekels a day: from time to time shalt thou eat it. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.4.11" data-parsed="Ezek_4_11_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 4.11" id="Ezek.4.11"/><sup>11</sup>And thou shalt drink water by measure, the sixth part of a hin: from time to time shalt thou drink. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.4.12" data-parsed="Ezek_4_12_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 4.12" id="Ezek.4.12"/><sup>12</sup>And thou shalt eat it as barley cakes, and thou shalt bake it in their sight with dung that cometh out of man. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.4.13" data-parsed="Ezek_4_13_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 4.13" id="Ezek.4.13"/><sup>13</sup>And Jehovah said, Even thus shall the children of Israel eat their bread unclean, among the nations whither I will drive them. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.4.14" data-parsed="Ezek_4_14_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 4.14" id="Ezek.4.14"/><sup>14</sup>Then said I, Ah Lord Jehovah!
behold, my soul hath not been polluted; for from my youth up even till now have I not eaten of that which dieth of itself, or is torn of beasts; neither came there abominable flesh into my mouth. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.4.15" data-parsed="Ezek_4_15_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 4.15" id="Ezek.4.15"/><sup>15</sup>Then he said unto me, See, I have given thee cow's dung for man's dung, and thou shalt prepare thy bread thereon. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.4.16" data-parsed="Ezek_4_16_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 4.16" id="Ezek.4.16"/><sup>16</sup>Moreover he said unto me, Son of man, behold, I will break the staff of bread in Jerusalem: and they shall eat bread by weight, and with fearfulness; and they shall drink water by measure, and in dismay: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.4.17" data-parsed="Ezek_4_17_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 4.17" id="Ezek.4.17"/><sup>17</sup>that they may want bread and water, and be dismayed one with another, and pine away in their iniquity.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>