<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Ezekiel 24</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Ezekiel 24</span></div><div data-next="Ezek.25" data-prev="Ezek.23" data-progress="69.50%" data-shorttitle="" id="Ezek.24" title="Ezekiel 24">
<h2 id="Ezek.24-p0.1">24</h2>
<p id="Ezek.24-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.24.1" data-parsed="Ezek_24_1_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 24.1" id="Ezek.24.1"/><sup>1</sup>Again, in the ninth year, in the tenth month, in the tenth <i>day</i> of the month, the word of Jehovah came unto me, saying, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.24.2" data-parsed="Ezek_24_2_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 24.2" id="Ezek.24.2"/><sup>2</sup>Son of man, write thee the name of the day, <i>even</i> of this selfsame day:
the king of Babylon drew close unto Jerusalem this selfsame day. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.24.3" data-parsed="Ezek_24_3_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 24.3" id="Ezek.24.3"/><sup>3</sup>And utter a parable unto the rebellious house, and say unto them, Thus saith the Lord Jehovah, Set on the caldron, set it on, and also pour water into it:

<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.24.4" data-parsed="Ezek_24_4_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 24.4" id="Ezek.24.4"/><sup>4</sup>gather the pieces thereof into it, even every good piece, the thigh, and the shoulder; fill it with the choice bones. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.24.5" data-parsed="Ezek_24_5_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 24.5" id="Ezek.24.5"/><sup>5</sup>Take the choice of the flock, and also a pile <i>of wood</i> for the bones under <i>the caldron</i>; make it boil well; yea, let the bones thereof be boiled in the midst of it. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.24.6" data-parsed="Ezek_24_6_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 24.6" id="Ezek.24.6"/><sup>6</sup>Wherefore thus saith the Lord Jehovah: Woe to the bloody city, to the caldron whose rust is therein, and whose rust is not gone out of it! take out of it piece after piece; No lot is fallen upon it. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.24.7" data-parsed="Ezek_24_7_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 24.7" id="Ezek.24.7"/><sup>7</sup>For her blood is in the midst of her; she set it upon the bare rock; she poured it not upon the ground, to cover it with dust. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.24.8" data-parsed="Ezek_24_8_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 24.8" id="Ezek.24.8"/><sup>8</sup>That it may cause wrath to come up to take vengeance, I have set her blood upon the bare rock, that it should not be covered. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.24.9" data-parsed="Ezek_24_9_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 24.9" id="Ezek.24.9"/><sup>9</sup>Therefore thus saith the Lord Jehovah: Woe to the bloody city! I also will make the pile great. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.24.10" data-parsed="Ezek_24_10_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 24.10" id="Ezek.24.10"/><sup>10</sup>Heap on the wood, make the fire hot, boil well the flesh, and make thick the broth, and let the bones be burned. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.24.11" data-parsed="Ezek_24_11_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 24.11" id="Ezek.24.11"/><sup>11</sup>Then set it empty upon the coals thereof, that it may be hot, and the brass thereof may burn, and that the filthiness of it may be molten in it, that the rust of it may be consumed. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.24.12" data-parsed="Ezek_24_12_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 24.12" id="Ezek.24.12"/><sup>12</sup>She hath wearied <i>herself</i> with toil; yet her great rust goeth not forth out of her; her rust <i>goeth not forth</i> by fire. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.24.13" data-parsed="Ezek_24_13_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 24.13" id="Ezek.24.13"/><sup>13</sup>In thy filthiness is lewdness:
because I have cleansed thee and thou wast not cleansed, thou shalt not be cleansed from thy filthiness any more, till I have caused my wrath toward thee to rest. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.24.14" data-parsed="Ezek_24_14_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 24.14" id="Ezek.24.14"/><sup>14</sup>I, Jehovah, have spoken it: it shall come to pass, and I will do it: I will not go back, neither will I spare, neither will I repent;
according to thy ways, and according to thy doings, shall they judge thee,
saith the Lord Jehovah. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.24.15" data-parsed="Ezek_24_15_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 24.15" id="Ezek.24.15"/><sup>15</sup>Also the word of Jehovah came unto me, saying,

<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.24.16" data-parsed="Ezek_24_16_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 24.16" id="Ezek.24.16"/><sup>16</sup>Son of man, behold, I take away from thee the desire of thine eyes with a stroke: yet thou shalt neither mourn nor weep, neither shall thy tears run down. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.24.17" data-parsed="Ezek_24_17_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 24.17" id="Ezek.24.17"/><sup>17</sup>Sigh, but not aloud, make no mourning for the dead; bind thy headtire upon thee, and put thy shoes upon thy feet, and cover not thy lips,
and eat not the bread of men. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.24.18" data-parsed="Ezek_24_18_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 24.18" id="Ezek.24.18"/><sup>18</sup>So I spake unto the people in the morning; and at even my wife died; and I did in the morning as I was commanded. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.24.19" data-parsed="Ezek_24_19_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 24.19" id="Ezek.24.19"/><sup>19</sup>And the people said unto me, Wilt thou not tell us what these things are to us, that thou doest so? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.24.20" data-parsed="Ezek_24_20_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 24.20" id="Ezek.24.20"/><sup>20</sup>Then I said unto them, The word of Jehovah came unto me, saying, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.24.21" data-parsed="Ezek_24_21_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 24.21" id="Ezek.24.21"/><sup>21</sup>Speak unto the house of Israel,
Thus saith the Lord Jehovah: Behold, I will profane my sanctuary, the pride of your power, the desire of your eyes, and that which your soul pitieth; and your sons and your daughters whom ye have left behind shall fall by the sword. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.24.22" data-parsed="Ezek_24_22_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 24.22" id="Ezek.24.22"/><sup>22</sup>And ye shall do as I have done: ye shall not cover your lips,
nor eat the bread of men. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.24.23" data-parsed="Ezek_24_23_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 24.23" id="Ezek.24.23"/><sup>23</sup>And your tires shall be upon your heads, and your shoes upon your feet: ye shall not mourn nor weep; but ye shall pine away in your iniquities, and moan one toward another. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.24.24" data-parsed="Ezek_24_24_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 24.24" id="Ezek.24.24"/><sup>24</sup>Thus shall Ezekiel be unto you a sign; according to all that he hath done shall ye do:
when this cometh, then shall ye know that I am the Lord Jehovah. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.24.25" data-parsed="Ezek_24_25_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 24.25" id="Ezek.24.25"/><sup>25</sup>And thou, son of man, shall it not be in the day when I take from them their strength, the joy of their glory, the desire of their eyes, and that whereupon they set their heart, their sons and their daughters, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.24.26" data-parsed="Ezek_24_26_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 24.26" id="Ezek.24.26"/><sup>26</sup>that in that day he that escapeth shall come unto thee, to cause thee to hear it with thine ears? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.24.27" data-parsed="Ezek_24_27_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 24.27" id="Ezek.24.27"/><sup>27</sup>In that day shall thy mouth be opened to him that is escaped, and thou shalt speak, and be no more dumb: so shalt thou be a sign unto them; and they shall know that I am Jehovah.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>