<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Ezekiel 10</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Ezekiel 10</span></div><div data-next="Ezek.11" data-prev="Ezek.9" data-progress="67.94%" data-shorttitle="" id="Ezek.10" title="Ezekiel 10">
<h2 id="Ezek.10-p0.1">10</h2>
<p id="Ezek.10-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.10.1" data-parsed="Ezek_10_1_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 10.1" id="Ezek.10.1"/><sup>1</sup>Then I looked, and behold, in the firmament that was over the head of the cherubim there appeared above them as it were a sapphire stone, as the appearance of the likeness of a throne. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.10.2" data-parsed="Ezek_10_2_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 10.2" id="Ezek.10.2"/><sup>2</sup>And he spake unto the man clothed in linen, and said, Go in between the whirling <i>wheels</i>, even under the cherub, and fill both thy hands with coals of fire from between the cherubim, and scatter them over the city. And he went in in my sight.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.10.3" data-parsed="Ezek_10_3_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 10.3" id="Ezek.10.3"/><sup>3</sup>Now the cherubim stood on the right side of the house, when the man went in; and the cloud filled the inner court. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.10.4" data-parsed="Ezek_10_4_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 10.4" id="Ezek.10.4"/><sup>4</sup>And the glory of Jehovah mounted up from the cherub, <i>and stood</i> over the threshold of the house; and the house was filled with the cloud, and the court was full of the brightness of Jehovah's glory. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.10.5" data-parsed="Ezek_10_5_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 10.5" id="Ezek.10.5"/><sup>5</sup>And the sound of the wings of the cherubim was heard even to the outer court, as the voice of God Almighty when he speaketh. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.10.6" data-parsed="Ezek_10_6_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 10.6" id="Ezek.10.6"/><sup>6</sup>And it came to pass, when he commanded the man clothed in linen, saying, Take fire from between the whirling wheels, from between the cherubim, that he went in, and stood beside a wheel. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.10.7" data-parsed="Ezek_10_7_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 10.7" id="Ezek.10.7"/><sup>7</sup>And the cherub stretched forth his hand from between the cherubim unto the fire that was between the cherubim, and took <i>thereof</i>, and put it into the hands of him that was clothed in linen, who took it and went out. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.10.8" data-parsed="Ezek_10_8_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 10.8" id="Ezek.10.8"/><sup>8</sup>And there appeared in the cherubim the form of a man's hand under their wings. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.10.9" data-parsed="Ezek_10_9_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 10.9" id="Ezek.10.9"/><sup>9</sup>And I looked, and behold, four wheels beside the cherubim, one wheel beside one cherub, and another wheel beside another cherub; and the appearance of the wheels was like unto a beryl stone. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.10.10" data-parsed="Ezek_10_10_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 10.10" id="Ezek.10.10"/><sup>10</sup>And as for their appearance, they four had one likeness, as if a wheel have been within a wheel. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.10.11" data-parsed="Ezek_10_11_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 10.11" id="Ezek.10.11"/><sup>11</sup>When they went, they went in their four directions: they turned not as they went,
but to the place whither the head looked they followed it; they turned not as they went. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.10.12" data-parsed="Ezek_10_12_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 10.12" id="Ezek.10.12"/><sup>12</sup>And their whole body, and their backs, and their hands, and their wings, and the wheels, were full of eyes round about, <i>even</i> the wheels that they four had. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.10.13" data-parsed="Ezek_10_13_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 10.13" id="Ezek.10.13"/><sup>13</sup>As for the wheels, they were called in my hearing, the whirling <i>wheels</i>. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.10.14" data-parsed="Ezek_10_14_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 10.14" id="Ezek.10.14"/><sup>14</sup>And every one had four faces: the first face was the face of the cherub, and the second face was the face of a man, and the third face the face of a lion, and the fourth the face of an eagle. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.10.15" data-parsed="Ezek_10_15_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 10.15" id="Ezek.10.15"/><sup>15</sup>And the cherubim mounted up: this is the living creature that I saw by the river Chebar. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.10.16" data-parsed="Ezek_10_16_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 10.16" id="Ezek.10.16"/><sup>16</sup>And when the cherubim went, the wheels went beside them; and when the cherubim lifted up their wings to mount up from the earth, the wheels also turned not from beside them. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.10.17" data-parsed="Ezek_10_17_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 10.17" id="Ezek.10.17"/><sup>17</sup>When they stood,
these stood; and when they mounted up, these mounted up with them: for the spirit of the living creature was in them. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.10.18" data-parsed="Ezek_10_18_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 10.18" id="Ezek.10.18"/><sup>18</sup>And the glory of Jehovah went forth from over the threshold of the house, and stood over the cherubim.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.10.19" data-parsed="Ezek_10_19_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 10.19" id="Ezek.10.19"/><sup>19</sup>And the cherubim lifted up their wings, and mounted up from the earth in my sight when they went forth, and the wheels beside them: and they stood at the door of the east gate of Jehovah's house; and the glory of the God of Israel was over them above. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.10.20" data-parsed="Ezek_10_20_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 10.20" id="Ezek.10.20"/><sup>20</sup>This is the living creature that I saw under the God of Israel by the river Chebar; and I knew that they were cherubim. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.10.21" data-parsed="Ezek_10_21_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 10.21" id="Ezek.10.21"/><sup>21</sup>Every one had four faces, and every one four wings; and the likeness of the hands of a man was under their wings. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.10.22" data-parsed="Ezek_10_22_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 10.22" id="Ezek.10.22"/><sup>22</sup>And as for the likeness of their faces, they were the faces which I saw by the river Chebar,
their appearances and themselves; they went every one straight forward.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>