<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Ezekiel 9</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Ezekiel 9</span></div><div data-next="Ezek.10" data-prev="Ezek.8" data-progress="67.89%" data-shorttitle="" id="Ezek.9" title="Ezekiel 9">
<h2 id="Ezek.9-p0.1">9</h2>
<p id="Ezek.9-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.9.1" data-parsed="Ezek_9_1_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 9.1" id="Ezek.9.1"/><sup>1</sup>Then he cried in mine ears with a loud voice, saying, Cause ye them that have charge over the city to draw near, every man with his destroying weapon in his hand. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.9.2" data-parsed="Ezek_9_2_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 9.2" id="Ezek.9.2"/><sup>2</sup>And behold, six men came from the way of the upper gate, which lieth toward the north, every man with his slaughter weapon in his hand; and one man in the midst of them clothed in linen, with a writer's inkhorn by his side. And they went in, and stood beside the brazen altar.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.9.3" data-parsed="Ezek_9_3_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 9.3" id="Ezek.9.3"/><sup>3</sup>And the glory of the God of Israel was gone up from the cherub,
whereupon it was, to the threshold of the house: and he called to the man clothed in linen, who had the writer's inkhorn by his side. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.9.4" data-parsed="Ezek_9_4_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 9.4" id="Ezek.9.4"/><sup>4</sup>And Jehovah said unto him, Go through the midst of the city, through the midst of Jerusalem, and set a mark upon the foreheads of the men that sigh and that cry over all the abominations that are done in the midst thereof. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.9.5" data-parsed="Ezek_9_5_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 9.5" id="Ezek.9.5"/><sup>5</sup>And to the others he said in my hearing, Go ye through the city after him, and smite: let not your eye spare, neither have ye pity; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.9.6" data-parsed="Ezek_9_6_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 9.6" id="Ezek.9.6"/><sup>6</sup>slay utterly the old man, the young man and the virgin, and little children and women; but come not near any man upon whom is the mark: and begin at my sanctuary. Then they began at the old men that were before the house. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.9.7" data-parsed="Ezek_9_7_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 9.7" id="Ezek.9.7"/><sup>7</sup>And he said unto them, Defile the house, and fill the courts with the slain: go ye forth. And they went forth, and smote in the city. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.9.8" data-parsed="Ezek_9_8_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 9.8" id="Ezek.9.8"/><sup>8</sup>And it came to pass, while they were smiting, and I was left, that I fell upon my face, and cried, and said,
Ah Lord Jehovah! wilt thou destroy all the residue of Israel in thy pouring out of thy wrath upon Jerusalem? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.9.9" data-parsed="Ezek_9_9_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 9.9" id="Ezek.9.9"/><sup>9</sup>Then said he unto me, The iniquity of the house of Israel and Judah is exceeding great, and the land is full of blood, and the city full of wrestling <i>of judgment</i>: for they say,
Jehovah hath forsaken the land, and Jehovah seeth not. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.9.10" data-parsed="Ezek_9_10_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 9.10" id="Ezek.9.10"/><sup>10</sup>And as for me also, mine eye shall not spare, neither will I have pity, but I will bring their way upon their head. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.9.11" data-parsed="Ezek_9_11_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 9.11" id="Ezek.9.11"/><sup>11</sup>And behold, the man clothed in linen, who had the inkhorn by his side, reported the matter, saying, I have done as thou hast commanded me.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>