<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Ezekiel 25</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Ezekiel 25</span></div><div data-next="Ezek.26" data-prev="Ezek.24" data-progress="69.59%" data-shorttitle="" id="Ezek.25" title="Ezekiel 25">
<h2 id="Ezek.25-p0.1">25</h2>
<p id="Ezek.25-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.25.1" data-parsed="Ezek_25_1_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 25.1" id="Ezek.25.1"/><sup>1</sup>And the word of Jehovah came unto me, saying, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.25.2" data-parsed="Ezek_25_2_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 25.2" id="Ezek.25.2"/><sup>2</sup>Son of man, set thy face toward the children of Ammon, and prophesy against them: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.25.3" data-parsed="Ezek_25_3_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 25.3" id="Ezek.25.3"/><sup>3</sup>and say unto the children of Ammon, Hear the word of the Lord Jehovah: Thus saith the Lord Jehovah, Because thou saidst, Aha, against my sanctuary, when it was profaned; and against the land of Israel, when it was made desolate; and against the house of Judah, when they went into captivity: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.25.4" data-parsed="Ezek_25_4_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 25.4" id="Ezek.25.4"/><sup>4</sup>therefore,
behold, I will deliver thee to the children of the east for a possession, and they shall set their encampments in thee, and make their dwellings in thee;
they shall eat thy fruit, and they shall drink thy milk. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.25.5" data-parsed="Ezek_25_5_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 25.5" id="Ezek.25.5"/><sup>5</sup>And I will make Rabbah a stable for camels, and the children of Ammon a couching-place for flocks: and ye shall know that I am Jehovah. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.25.6" data-parsed="Ezek_25_6_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 25.6" id="Ezek.25.6"/><sup>6</sup>For thus saith the Lord Jehovah: Because thou hast clapped thy hands, and stamped with the feet, and rejoiced with all the despite of thy soul against the land of Israel;

<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.25.7" data-parsed="Ezek_25_7_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 25.7" id="Ezek.25.7"/><sup>7</sup>therefore, behold, I have stretched out my hand upon thee, and will deliver thee for a spoil to the nations; and I will cut thee off from the peoples, and I will cause thee to perish out of the countries: I will destroy thee; and thou shalt know that I am Jehovah. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.25.8" data-parsed="Ezek_25_8_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 25.8" id="Ezek.25.8"/><sup>8</sup>Thus saith the Lord Jehovah: Because that Moab and Seir do say, Behold, the house of Judah is like unto all the nations; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.25.9" data-parsed="Ezek_25_9_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 25.9" id="Ezek.25.9"/><sup>9</sup>therefore, behold, I will open the side of Moab from the cities, from his cities which are on his frontiers, the glory of the country, Beth-jeshimoth, Baal-meon, and Kiriathaim, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.25.10" data-parsed="Ezek_25_10_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 25.10" id="Ezek.25.10"/><sup>10</sup>unto the children of the east, <i>to go</i> against the children of Ammon; and I will give them for a possession, that the children of Ammon may not be remembered among the nations. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.25.11" data-parsed="Ezek_25_11_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 25.11" id="Ezek.25.11"/><sup>11</sup>and I will execute judgments upon Moab; and they shall know that I am Jehovah. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.25.12" data-parsed="Ezek_25_12_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 25.12" id="Ezek.25.12"/><sup>12</sup>Thus saith the Lord Jehovah: Because that Edom hath dealt against the house of Judah by taking vengeance, and hath greatly offended, and revenged himself upon them; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.25.13" data-parsed="Ezek_25_13_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 25.13" id="Ezek.25.13"/><sup>13</sup>therefore thus saith the Lord Jehovah, I will stretch out my hand upon Edom, and will cut off man and beast from it; and I will make it desolate from Teman; even unto Dedan shall they fall by the sword. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.25.14" data-parsed="Ezek_25_14_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 25.14" id="Ezek.25.14"/><sup>14</sup>And I will lay my vengeance upon Edom by the hand of my people Israel; and they shall do in Edom according to mine anger and according to my wrath; and they shall know my vengeance, saith the Lord Jehovah. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.25.15" data-parsed="Ezek_25_15_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 25.15" id="Ezek.25.15"/><sup>15</sup>Thus saith the Lord Jehovah: Because the Philistines have dealt by revenge, and have taken vengeance with despite of soul to destroy with perpetual enmity; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.25.16" data-parsed="Ezek_25_16_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 25.16" id="Ezek.25.16"/><sup>16</sup>therefore thus saith the Lord Jehovah, Behold, I will stretch out my hand upon the Philistines, and I will cut off the Cherethites, and destroy the remnant of the sea coast. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.25.17" data-parsed="Ezek_25_17_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 25.17" id="Ezek.25.17"/><sup>17</sup>And I will execute great vengeance upon them with wrathful rebukes; and they shall know that I am Jehovah, when I shall lay my vengeance upon them.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>