<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Ezekiel 39</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Ezekiel 39</span></div><div data-next="Ezek.40" data-prev="Ezek.38" data-progress="71.00%" data-shorttitle="" id="Ezek.39" title="Ezekiel 39">
<h2 id="Ezek.39-p0.1">39</h2>
<p id="Ezek.39-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.39.1" data-parsed="Ezek_39_1_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 39.1" id="Ezek.39.1"/><sup>1</sup>And thou, son of man, prophesy against Gog, and say, Thus saith the Lord Jehovah: Behold, I am against thee, O Gog, prince of Rosh, Meshech,
and Tubal: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.39.2" data-parsed="Ezek_39_2_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 39.2" id="Ezek.39.2"/><sup>2</sup>and I will turn thee about, and will lead thee on, and will cause thee to come up from the uttermost parts of the north; and I will bring thee upon the mountains of Israel; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.39.3" data-parsed="Ezek_39_3_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 39.3" id="Ezek.39.3"/><sup>3</sup>and I will smite thy bow out of thy left hand, and will cause thine arrows to fall out of thy right hand.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.39.4" data-parsed="Ezek_39_4_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 39.4" id="Ezek.39.4"/><sup>4</sup>Thou shalt fall upon the mountains of Israel, thou, and all thy hordes,
and the peoples that are with thee: I will give thee unto the ravenous birds of every sort, and to the beasts of the field to be devoured. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.39.5" data-parsed="Ezek_39_5_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 39.5" id="Ezek.39.5"/><sup>5</sup>Thou shalt fall upon the open field; for I have spoken it, saith the Lord Jehovah.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.39.6" data-parsed="Ezek_39_6_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 39.6" id="Ezek.39.6"/><sup>6</sup>And I will send a fire on Magog, and on them that dwell securely in the isles; and they shall know that I am Jehovah. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.39.7" data-parsed="Ezek_39_7_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 39.7" id="Ezek.39.7"/><sup>7</sup>And my holy name will I make known in the midst of my people Israel; neither will I suffer my holy name to be profaned any more: and the nations shall know that I am Jehovah,
the Holy One in Israel. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.39.8" data-parsed="Ezek_39_8_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 39.8" id="Ezek.39.8"/><sup>8</sup>Behold, it cometh, and it shall be done, saith the Lord Jehovah; this is the day whereof I have spoken. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.39.9" data-parsed="Ezek_39_9_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 39.9" id="Ezek.39.9"/><sup>9</sup>And they that dwell in the cities of Israel shall go forth, and shall make fires of the weapons and burn them, both the shields and the bucklers, the bows and the arrows, and the handstaves, and the spears, and they shall make fires of them seven years; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.39.10" data-parsed="Ezek_39_10_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 39.10" id="Ezek.39.10"/><sup>10</sup>so that they shall take no wood out of the field, neither cut down any out of the forests; for they shall make fires of the weapons;
and they shall plunder those that plundered them, and rob those that robbed them, saith the Lord Jehovah. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.39.11" data-parsed="Ezek_39_11_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 39.11" id="Ezek.39.11"/><sup>11</sup>And it shall come to pass in that day,
that I will give unto Gog a place for burial in Israel, the valley of them that pass through on the east of the sea; and it shall stop them that pass through: and there shall they bury Gog and all his multitude; and they shall call it The valley of Hamon-gog. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.39.12" data-parsed="Ezek_39_12_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 39.12" id="Ezek.39.12"/><sup>12</sup>And seven months shall the house of Israel be burying them, that they may cleanse the land. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.39.13" data-parsed="Ezek_39_13_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 39.13" id="Ezek.39.13"/><sup>13</sup>Yea, all the people of the land shall bury them; and it shall be to them a renown in the day that I shall be glorified, saith the Lord Jehovah. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.39.14" data-parsed="Ezek_39_14_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 39.14" id="Ezek.39.14"/><sup>14</sup>And they shall set apart men of continual employment, that shall pass through the land, and,
with them that pass through, those that bury them that remain upon the face of the land, to cleanse it: after the end of seven months shall they search.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.39.15" data-parsed="Ezek_39_15_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 39.15" id="Ezek.39.15"/><sup>15</sup>And they that pass through the land shall pass through; and when any seeth a man's bone, then shall he set up a sign by it, till the buriers have buried it in the valley of Hamon-gog. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.39.16" data-parsed="Ezek_39_16_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 39.16" id="Ezek.39.16"/><sup>16</sup>And Hamonah shall also be the name of a city. Thus shall they cleanse the land. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.39.17" data-parsed="Ezek_39_17_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 39.17" id="Ezek.39.17"/><sup>17</sup>And thou, son of man,
thus saith the Lord Jehovah: Speak unto the birds of every sort, and to every beast of the field, Assemble yourselves, and come; gather yourselves on every side to my sacrifice that I do sacrifice for you, even a great sacrifice upon the mountains of Israel, that ye may eat flesh and drink blood. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.39.18" data-parsed="Ezek_39_18_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 39.18" id="Ezek.39.18"/><sup>18</sup>Ye shall eat the flesh of the mighty, and drink the blood of the princes of the earth, of rams, of lambs, and of goats, of bullocks, all of them fatlings of Bashan. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.39.19" data-parsed="Ezek_39_19_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 39.19" id="Ezek.39.19"/><sup>19</sup>And ye shall eat fat till ye be full, and drink blood till ye be drunken, of my sacrifice which I have sacrificed for you. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.39.20" data-parsed="Ezek_39_20_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 39.20" id="Ezek.39.20"/><sup>20</sup>And ye shall be filled at my table with horses and chariots, with mighty men, and with all men of war, saith the Lord Jehovah. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.39.21" data-parsed="Ezek_39_21_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 39.21" id="Ezek.39.21"/><sup>21</sup>And I will set my glory among the nations; and all the nations shall see my judgment that I have executed, and my hand that I have laid upon them. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.39.22" data-parsed="Ezek_39_22_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 39.22" id="Ezek.39.22"/><sup>22</sup>So the house of Israel shall know that I am Jehovah their God, from that day and forward.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.39.23" data-parsed="Ezek_39_23_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 39.23" id="Ezek.39.23"/><sup>23</sup>And the nations shall know that the house of Israel went into captivity for their iniquity; because they trespassed against me, and I hid my face from them: so I gave them into the hand of their adversaries, and they fell all of them by the sword. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.39.24" data-parsed="Ezek_39_24_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 39.24" id="Ezek.39.24"/><sup>24</sup>According to their uncleanness and according to their transgressions did I unto them; and I hid my face from them.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.39.25" data-parsed="Ezek_39_25_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 39.25" id="Ezek.39.25"/><sup>25</sup>Therefore thus saith the Lord Jehovah: Now will I bring back the captivity of Jacob, and have mercy upon the whole house of Israel; and I will be jealous for my holy name. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.39.26" data-parsed="Ezek_39_26_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 39.26" id="Ezek.39.26"/><sup>26</sup>And they shall bear their shame, and all their trespasses whereby they have trespassed against me, when they shall dwell securely in their land, and none shall make them afraid; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.39.27" data-parsed="Ezek_39_27_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 39.27" id="Ezek.39.27"/><sup>27</sup>when I have brought them back from the peoples, and gathered them out of their enemies' lands, and am sanctified in them in the sight of many nations.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.39.28" data-parsed="Ezek_39_28_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 39.28" id="Ezek.39.28"/><sup>28</sup>And they shall know that I am Jehovah their God, in that I caused them to go into captivity among the nations, and have gathered them unto their own land; and I will leave none of them any more there; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.39.29" data-parsed="Ezek_39_29_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 39.29" id="Ezek.39.29"/><sup>29</sup>neither will I hide my face any more from them; for I have poured out my Spirit upon the house of Israel, saith the Lord Jehovah.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>