<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Ezekiel 29</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Ezekiel 29</span></div><div data-next="Ezek.30" data-prev="Ezek.28" data-progress="69.96%" data-shorttitle="" id="Ezek.29" title="Ezekiel 29">
<h2 id="Ezek.29-p0.1">29</h2>
<p id="Ezek.29-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.29.1" data-parsed="Ezek_29_1_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 29.1" id="Ezek.29.1"/><sup>1</sup>In the tenth year, in the tenth <i>month</i>, in the twelfth <i>day</i> of the month, the word of Jehovah came unto me, saying, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.29.2" data-parsed="Ezek_29_2_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 29.2" id="Ezek.29.2"/><sup>2</sup>Son of man, set thy face against Pharaoh king of Egypt, and prophesy against him,
and against all Egypt; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.29.3" data-parsed="Ezek_29_3_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 29.3" id="Ezek.29.3"/><sup>3</sup>speak, and say, Thus saith the Lord Jehovah:
Behold, I am against thee, Pharaoh king of Egypt, the great monster that lieth in the midst of his rivers, that hath said, My river is mine own, and I have made it for myself. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.29.4" data-parsed="Ezek_29_4_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 29.4" id="Ezek.29.4"/><sup>4</sup>And I will put hooks in thy jaws, and I will cause the fish of thy rivers to stick unto thy scales; and I will bring thee up out of the midst of thy rivers, with all the fish of thy rivers which stick unto thy scales. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.29.5" data-parsed="Ezek_29_5_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 29.5" id="Ezek.29.5"/><sup>5</sup>And I will cast thee forth into the wilderness,
thee and all the fish of thy rivers: thou shalt fall upon the open field;
thou shalt not be brought together, nor gathered; I have given thee for food to the beasts of the earth and to the birds of the heavens. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.29.6" data-parsed="Ezek_29_6_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 29.6" id="Ezek.29.6"/><sup>6</sup>And all the inhabitants of Egypt shall know that I am Jehovah, because they have been a staff of reed to the house of Israel. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.29.7" data-parsed="Ezek_29_7_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 29.7" id="Ezek.29.7"/><sup>7</sup>When they took hold of thee by thy hand, thou didst break, and didst rend all their shoulders; and when they leaned upon thee, thou brakest, and madest all their loins to be at a stand.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.29.8" data-parsed="Ezek_29_8_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 29.8" id="Ezek.29.8"/><sup>8</sup>Therefore thus saith the Lord Jehovah: Behold, I will bring a sword upon thee, and will cut off from thee man and beast. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.29.9" data-parsed="Ezek_29_9_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 29.9" id="Ezek.29.9"/><sup>9</sup>And the land of Egypt shall be a desolation and a waste; and they shall know that I am Jehovah.
Because he hath said, The river is mine, and I have made it; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.29.10" data-parsed="Ezek_29_10_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 29.10" id="Ezek.29.10"/><sup>10</sup>therefore,
behold, I am against thee, and against thy rivers, and I will make the land of Egypt an utter waste and desolation, from the tower of Seveneh even unto the border of Ethiopia. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.29.11" data-parsed="Ezek_29_11_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 29.11" id="Ezek.29.11"/><sup>11</sup>No foot of man shall pass through it, nor foot of beast shall pass through it, neither shall it be inhabited forty years.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.29.12" data-parsed="Ezek_29_12_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 29.12" id="Ezek.29.12"/><sup>12</sup>And I will make the land of Egypt a desolation in the midst of the countries that are desolate; and her cities among the cities that are laid waste shall be a desolation forty years; and I will scatter the Egyptians among the nations, and will disperse them through the countries. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.29.13" data-parsed="Ezek_29_13_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 29.13" id="Ezek.29.13"/><sup>13</sup>For thus saith the Lord Jehovah: At the end of forty years will I gather the Egyptians from the peoples whither they were scattered; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.29.14" data-parsed="Ezek_29_14_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 29.14" id="Ezek.29.14"/><sup>14</sup>and I will bring back the captivity of Egypt, and will cause them to return into the land of Pathros, into the land of their birth; and they shall be there a base kingdom. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.29.15" data-parsed="Ezek_29_15_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 29.15" id="Ezek.29.15"/><sup>15</sup>It shall be the basest of the kingdoms; neither shall it any more lift itself up above the nations: and I will diminish them, that they shall no more rule over the nations. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.29.16" data-parsed="Ezek_29_16_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 29.16" id="Ezek.29.16"/><sup>16</sup>And it shall be no more the confidence of the house of Israel, bringing iniquity to remembrance, when they turn to look after them: and they shall know that I am the Lord Jehovah.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.29.17" data-parsed="Ezek_29_17_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 29.17" id="Ezek.29.17"/><sup>17</sup>And it came to pass in the seven and twentieth year, in the first <i>month</i>, in the first <i>day</i> of the month, the word of Jehovah came unto me, saying, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.29.18" data-parsed="Ezek_29_18_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 29.18" id="Ezek.29.18"/><sup>18</sup>Son of man, Nebuchadrezzar king of Babylon caused his army to serve a great service against Tyre: every head was made bald, and every shoulder was worn; yet had he no wages, nor his army, from Tyre, for the service that he had served against it. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.29.19" data-parsed="Ezek_29_19_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 29.19" id="Ezek.29.19"/><sup>19</sup>Therefore thus saith the Lord Jehovah: Behold, I will give the land of Egypt unto Nebuchadrezzar king of Babylon; and he shall carry off her multitude, and take her spoil, and take her prey; and it shall be the wages for his army. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.29.20" data-parsed="Ezek_29_20_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 29.20" id="Ezek.29.20"/><sup>20</sup>I have given him the land of Egypt as his recompense for which he served, because they wrought for me, saith the Lord Jehovah. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.29.21" data-parsed="Ezek_29_21_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 29.21" id="Ezek.29.21"/><sup>21</sup>In that day will I cause a horn to bud forth unto the house of Israel, and I will give thee the opening of the mouth in the midst of them; and they shall know that I am Jehovah.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>