<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Ezekiel 41</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Ezekiel 41</span></div><div data-next="Ezek.42" data-prev="Ezek.40" data-progress="71.31%" data-shorttitle="" id="Ezek.41" title="Ezekiel 41">
<h2 id="Ezek.41-p0.1">41</h2>
<p id="Ezek.41-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.41.1" data-parsed="Ezek_41_1_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 41.1" id="Ezek.41.1"/><sup>1</sup>And he brought me to the temple, and measured the posts, six cubits broad on the one side, and six cubits broad on the other side, which was the breadth of the tabernacle. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.41.2" data-parsed="Ezek_41_2_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 41.2" id="Ezek.41.2"/><sup>2</sup>And the breadth of the entrance was ten cubits; and the sides of the entrance were five cubits on the one side,
and five cubits on the other side: and he measured the length thereof, forty cubits, and the breadth, twenty cubits. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.41.3" data-parsed="Ezek_41_3_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 41.3" id="Ezek.41.3"/><sup>3</sup>Then went he inward, and measured each post of the entrance, two cubits; and the entrance, six cubits;
and the breadth of the entrance, seven cubits. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.41.4" data-parsed="Ezek_41_4_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 41.4" id="Ezek.41.4"/><sup>4</sup>And he measured the length thereof, twenty cubits, and the breadth, twenty cubits, before the temple: and he said unto me, This is the most holy place. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.41.5" data-parsed="Ezek_41_5_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 41.5" id="Ezek.41.5"/><sup>5</sup>Then he measured the wall of the house, six cubits; and the breadth of every side-chamber, four cubits, round about the house on every side. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.41.6" data-parsed="Ezek_41_6_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 41.6" id="Ezek.41.6"/><sup>6</sup>And the side-chambers were in three stories, one over another, and thirty in order;
and they entered into the wall which belonged to the house for the side-chambers round about, that they might have hold <i>therein</i>, and not have hold in the wall of the house. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.41.7" data-parsed="Ezek_41_7_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 41.7" id="Ezek.41.7"/><sup>7</sup>And the side-chambers were broader as they encompassed <i>the house</i> higher and higher; for the encompassing of the house went higher and higher round about the house: therefore the breadth of the house <i>continued</i> upward; and so one went up <i>from</i> the lowest <i>chamber</i> to the highest by the middle <i>chamber</i>. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.41.8" data-parsed="Ezek_41_8_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 41.8" id="Ezek.41.8"/><sup>8</sup>I saw also that the house had a raised basement round about: the foundations of the side-chambers were a full reed of six great cubits. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.41.9" data-parsed="Ezek_41_9_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 41.9" id="Ezek.41.9"/><sup>9</sup>The thickness of the wall, which was for the side-chambers, on the outside, was five cubits: and that which was left was the place of the side-chambers that belonged to the house. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.41.10" data-parsed="Ezek_41_10_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 41.10" id="Ezek.41.10"/><sup>10</sup>And between the chambers was a breadth of twenty cubits round about the house on every side. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.41.11" data-parsed="Ezek_41_11_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 41.11" id="Ezek.41.11"/><sup>11</sup>And the doors of the side-chambers were toward <i>the place</i> that was left, one door toward the north, and another door toward the south: and the breadth of the place that was left was five cubits round about. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.41.12" data-parsed="Ezek_41_12_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 41.12" id="Ezek.41.12"/><sup>12</sup>And the building that was before the separate place at the side toward the west was seventy cubits broad; and the wall of the building was five cubits thick round about,
and the length thereof ninety cubits. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.41.13" data-parsed="Ezek_41_13_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 41.13" id="Ezek.41.13"/><sup>13</sup>So he measured the house, a hundred cubits long; and the separate place, and the building, with the walls thereof, a hundred cubits long; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.41.14" data-parsed="Ezek_41_14_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 41.14" id="Ezek.41.14"/><sup>14</sup>also the breadth of the face of the house, and of the separate place toward the east, a hundred cubits. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.41.15" data-parsed="Ezek_41_15_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 41.15" id="Ezek.41.15"/><sup>15</sup>And he measured the length of the building before the separate place which was at the back thereof, and the galleries thereof on the one side and on the other side, a hundred cubits; and the inner temple, and the porches of the court;

<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.41.16" data-parsed="Ezek_41_16_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 41.16" id="Ezek.41.16"/><sup>16</sup>the thresholds, and the closed windows, and the galleries round about on their three stories, over against the threshold, ceiled with wood round about, and <i>from</i> the ground up to the windows, (now the windows were covered), 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.41.17" data-parsed="Ezek_41_17_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 41.17" id="Ezek.41.17"/><sup>17</sup>to <i>the space</i> above the door, even unto the inner house, and without, and by all the wall round about within and without, by measure. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.41.18" data-parsed="Ezek_41_18_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 41.18" id="Ezek.41.18"/><sup>18</sup>And it was made with cherubim and palm-trees; and a palm-tree was between cherub and cherub, and every cherub had two faces; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.41.19" data-parsed="Ezek_41_19_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 41.19" id="Ezek.41.19"/><sup>19</sup>so that there was the face of a man toward the palm-tree on the one side, and the face of a young lion toward the palm-tree on the other side. <i>thus was it</i> made through all the house round about: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.41.20" data-parsed="Ezek_41_20_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 41.20" id="Ezek.41.20"/><sup>20</sup>from the ground unto above the door were cherubim and palm-trees made: thus was the wall of the temple. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.41.21" data-parsed="Ezek_41_21_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 41.21" id="Ezek.41.21"/><sup>21</sup>As for the temple, the door-posts were squared; and as for the face of the sanctuary, the appearance <i>thereof</i> was as the appearance <i>of the temple</i>. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.41.22" data-parsed="Ezek_41_22_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 41.22" id="Ezek.41.22"/><sup>22</sup>The altar was of wood, three cubits high, and the length thereof two cubits; and the corners thereof, and the length thereof, and the walls thereof, were of wood: and he said unto me, This is the table that is before Jehovah. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.41.23" data-parsed="Ezek_41_23_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 41.23" id="Ezek.41.23"/><sup>23</sup>And the temple and the sanctuary had two doors. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.41.24" data-parsed="Ezek_41_24_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 41.24" id="Ezek.41.24"/><sup>24</sup>And the doors had two leaves <i>apiece</i>, two turning leaves: two <i>leaves</i> for the one door, and two leaves for the other.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.41.25" data-parsed="Ezek_41_25_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 41.25" id="Ezek.41.25"/><sup>25</sup>And there were made on them, on the doors of the temple, cherubim and palm-trees, like as were made upon the walls; and there was a threshold of wood upon the face of the porch without. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.41.26" data-parsed="Ezek_41_26_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 41.26" id="Ezek.41.26"/><sup>26</sup>And there were closed windows and palm-trees on the one side and on the other side, on the sides of the porch: thus were the side-chambers of the house, and the thresholds.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>