<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Ezekiel 7</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Ezekiel 7</span></div><div data-next="Ezek.8" data-prev="Ezek.6" data-progress="67.72%" data-shorttitle="" id="Ezek.7" title="Ezekiel 7">
<h2 id="Ezek.7-p0.1">7</h2>
<p id="Ezek.7-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.7.1" data-parsed="Ezek_7_1_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 7.1" id="Ezek.7.1"/><sup>1</sup>Moreover the word of Jehovah came unto me, saying, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.7.2" data-parsed="Ezek_7_2_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 7.2" id="Ezek.7.2"/><sup>2</sup>And thou,
son of man, thus saith the Lord Jehovah unto the land of Israel, An end: the end is come upon the four corners of the land. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.7.3" data-parsed="Ezek_7_3_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 7.3" id="Ezek.7.3"/><sup>3</sup>Now is the end upon thee,
and I will send mine anger upon thee, and will judge thee according to thy ways; and I will bring upon thee all thine abominations. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.7.4" data-parsed="Ezek_7_4_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 7.4" id="Ezek.7.4"/><sup>4</sup>And mine eye shall not spare thee, neither will I have pity; but I will bring thy ways upon thee, and thine abominations shall be in the midst of thee: and ye shall know that I am Jehovah. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.7.5" data-parsed="Ezek_7_5_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 7.5" id="Ezek.7.5"/><sup>5</sup>Thus saith the Lord Jehovah: An evil, an only evil; behold, it cometh. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.7.6" data-parsed="Ezek_7_6_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 7.6" id="Ezek.7.6"/><sup>6</sup>An end is come, the end is come; it awaketh against thee; behold, it cometh. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.7.7" data-parsed="Ezek_7_7_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 7.7" id="Ezek.7.7"/><sup>7</sup>Thy doom is come unto thee, O inhabitant of the land: the time is come, the day is near, <i>a day of</i>
tumult, and not <i>of</i> joyful shouting, upon the mountains. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.7.8" data-parsed="Ezek_7_8_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 7.8" id="Ezek.7.8"/><sup>8</sup>Now will I shortly pour out my wrath upon thee, and accomplish mine anger against thee, and will judge thee according to thy ways; and I will bring upon thee all thine abominations. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.7.9" data-parsed="Ezek_7_9_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 7.9" id="Ezek.7.9"/><sup>9</sup>And mine eye shall not spare, neither will I have pity: I will bring upon thee according to thy ways; and thine abominations shall be in the midst of thee; and ye shall know that I,
Jehovah, do smite. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.7.10" data-parsed="Ezek_7_10_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 7.10" id="Ezek.7.10"/><sup>10</sup>Behold, the day, behold, it cometh: thy doom is gone forth; the rod hath blossomed, pride hath budded. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.7.11" data-parsed="Ezek_7_11_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 7.11" id="Ezek.7.11"/><sup>11</sup>Violence is risen up into a rod of wickedness; none of them <i>shall remain</i>, nor of their multitude, nor of their wealth: neither shall there be eminency among them.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.7.12" data-parsed="Ezek_7_12_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 7.12" id="Ezek.7.12"/><sup>12</sup>The time is come, the day draweth near: let not the buyer rejoice, nor the seller mourn; for wrath is upon all the multitude thereof. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.7.13" data-parsed="Ezek_7_13_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 7.13" id="Ezek.7.13"/><sup>13</sup>For the seller shall not return to that which is sold, although they be yet alive:
for the vision is touching the whole multitude thereof, none shall return;
neither shall any strengthen himself in the iniquity of his life. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.7.14" data-parsed="Ezek_7_14_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 7.14" id="Ezek.7.14"/><sup>14</sup>They have blown the trumpet, and have made all ready; but none goeth to the battle; for my wrath is upon all the multitude thereof. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.7.15" data-parsed="Ezek_7_15_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 7.15" id="Ezek.7.15"/><sup>15</sup>The sword is without, and the pestilence and the famine within: he that is in the field shall die with the sword: and he that is in the city, famine and pestilence shall devour him. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.7.16" data-parsed="Ezek_7_16_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 7.16" id="Ezek.7.16"/><sup>16</sup>But those of them that escape shall escape, and shall be on the mountains like doves of the valleys, all of them moaning, every one in his iniquity. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.7.17" data-parsed="Ezek_7_17_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 7.17" id="Ezek.7.17"/><sup>17</sup>All hands shall be feeble, and all knees shall be weak as water. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.7.18" data-parsed="Ezek_7_18_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 7.18" id="Ezek.7.18"/><sup>18</sup>They shall also gird themselves with sackcloth, and horror shall cover them; and shame shall be upon all faces, and baldness upon all their heads. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.7.19" data-parsed="Ezek_7_19_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 7.19" id="Ezek.7.19"/><sup>19</sup>They shall cast their silver in the streets, and their gold shall be as an unclean thing; their silver and their gold shall not be able to deliver them in the day of the wrath of Jehovah: they shall not satisfy their souls, neither fill their bowels; because it hath been the stumblingblock of their iniquity. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.7.20" data-parsed="Ezek_7_20_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 7.20" id="Ezek.7.20"/><sup>20</sup>As for the beauty of his ornament, he set it in majesty; but they made the images of their abominations <i>and</i>
their detestable things therein: therefore have I made it unto them as an unclean thing. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.7.21" data-parsed="Ezek_7_21_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 7.21" id="Ezek.7.21"/><sup>21</sup>And I will give it into the hands of the strangers for a prey, and to the wicked of the earth for a spoil; and they shall profane it.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.7.22" data-parsed="Ezek_7_22_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 7.22" id="Ezek.7.22"/><sup>22</sup>My face will I turn also from them, and they shall profane my secret <i>place</i>; and robbers shall enter into it, and profane it. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.7.23" data-parsed="Ezek_7_23_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 7.23" id="Ezek.7.23"/><sup>23</sup>Make the chain; for the land is full of bloody crimes, and the city is full of violence. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.7.24" data-parsed="Ezek_7_24_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 7.24" id="Ezek.7.24"/><sup>24</sup>Wherefore I will bring the worst of the nations, and they shall possess their houses: I will also make the pride of the strong to cease; and their holy places shall be profaned. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.7.25" data-parsed="Ezek_7_25_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 7.25" id="Ezek.7.25"/><sup>25</sup>Destruction cometh; and they shall seek peace, and there shall be none. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.7.26" data-parsed="Ezek_7_26_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 7.26" id="Ezek.7.26"/><sup>26</sup>Mischief shall come upon mischief, and rumor shall be upon rumor; and they shall seek a vision of the prophet; but the law shall perish from the priest, and counsel from the elders. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezek.7.27" data-parsed="Ezek_7_27_0_0" data-passage="Ezek 7.27" id="Ezek.7.27"/><sup>27</sup>The king shall mourn, and the prince shall be clothed with desolation, and the hands of the people of the land shall be troubled: I will do unto them after their way, and according to their deserts will I judge them; and they shall know that I am Jehovah.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>