<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Ezra 8</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Ezra 8</span></div><div data-next="Ezra.9" data-prev="Ezra.7" data-progress="43.48%" data-shorttitle="" id="Ezra.8" title="Ezra 8">
<h2 id="Ezra.8-p0.1">8</h2>
<p id="Ezra.8-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezra.8.1" data-parsed="Ezra_8_1_0_0" data-passage="Ezra 8.1" id="Ezra.8.1"/><sup>1</sup>Now these are the heads of their fathers' <i>houses</i>, and this is the genealogy of them that went up with me from Babylon, in the reign of Artaxerxes the king: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezra.8.2" data-parsed="Ezra_8_2_0_0" data-passage="Ezra 8.2" id="Ezra.8.2"/><sup>2</sup>Of the sons of Phinehas, Gershom. Of the sons of Ithamar, Daniel. Of the sons of David, Hattush. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezra.8.3" data-parsed="Ezra_8_3_0_0" data-passage="Ezra 8.3" id="Ezra.8.3"/><sup>3</sup>Of the sons of Shecaniah, of the sons of Parosh, Zechariah; and with him were reckoned by genealogy of the males a hundred and fifty. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezra.8.4" data-parsed="Ezra_8_4_0_0" data-passage="Ezra 8.4" id="Ezra.8.4"/><sup>4</sup>Of the sons of Pahath-moab,
Eliehoenai the son of Zerahiah; and with him two hundred males. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezra.8.5" data-parsed="Ezra_8_5_0_0" data-passage="Ezra 8.5" id="Ezra.8.5"/><sup>5</sup>Of the sons of Shecaniah, the son of Jahaziel; and with him three hundred males.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezra.8.6" data-parsed="Ezra_8_6_0_0" data-passage="Ezra 8.6" id="Ezra.8.6"/><sup>6</sup>And of the sons of Adin, Ebed the son of Jonathan; and with him fifty males. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezra.8.7" data-parsed="Ezra_8_7_0_0" data-passage="Ezra 8.7" id="Ezra.8.7"/><sup>7</sup>And of the sons of Elam, Jeshaiah the son of Athaliah; and with him seventy males. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezra.8.8" data-parsed="Ezra_8_8_0_0" data-passage="Ezra 8.8" id="Ezra.8.8"/><sup>8</sup>And of the sons of Shephatiah, Zebadiah the son of Michael; and with him fourscore males. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezra.8.9" data-parsed="Ezra_8_9_0_0" data-passage="Ezra 8.9" id="Ezra.8.9"/><sup>9</sup>Of the sons of Joab, Obadiah the son of Jehiel; and with him two hundred and eighteen males. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezra.8.10" data-parsed="Ezra_8_10_0_0" data-passage="Ezra 8.10" id="Ezra.8.10"/><sup>10</sup>And of the sons of Shelomith, the son of Josiphiah; and with him a hundred and threescore males. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezra.8.11" data-parsed="Ezra_8_11_0_0" data-passage="Ezra 8.11" id="Ezra.8.11"/><sup>11</sup>And of the sons of Bebai, Zechariah the son of Bebai;
and with him twenty and eight males. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezra.8.12" data-parsed="Ezra_8_12_0_0" data-passage="Ezra 8.12" id="Ezra.8.12"/><sup>12</sup>And of the sons of Azgad, Johanan the son of Hakkatan; and with him a hundred and ten males. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezra.8.13" data-parsed="Ezra_8_13_0_0" data-passage="Ezra 8.13" id="Ezra.8.13"/><sup>13</sup>And of the sons of Adonikam, <i>that were</i> the last; and these are their names:
Eliphelet, Jeuel, and Shemaiah; and with them threescore males. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezra.8.14" data-parsed="Ezra_8_14_0_0" data-passage="Ezra 8.14" id="Ezra.8.14"/><sup>14</sup>And of the sons of Bigvai, Uthai and Zabbud; and with them seventy males. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezra.8.15" data-parsed="Ezra_8_15_0_0" data-passage="Ezra 8.15" id="Ezra.8.15"/><sup>15</sup>And I gathered them together to the river that runneth to Ahava; and there we encamped three days: and I viewed the people, and the priests, and found there none of the sons of Levi. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezra.8.16" data-parsed="Ezra_8_16_0_0" data-passage="Ezra 8.16" id="Ezra.8.16"/><sup>16</sup>Then sent I for Eliezer, for Ariel, for Shemaiah, and for Elnathan, and for Jarib, and for Elnathan, and for Nathan,
and for Zechariah, and for Meshullam, chief men; also for Joiarib, and for Elnathan, who were teachers. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezra.8.17" data-parsed="Ezra_8_17_0_0" data-passage="Ezra 8.17" id="Ezra.8.17"/><sup>17</sup>And I sent them forth unto Iddo the chief at the place Casiphia; and I told them what they should say unto Iddo,
<i>and</i> his brethren the Nethinim, at the place Casiphia, that they should bring unto us ministers for the house of our God. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezra.8.18" data-parsed="Ezra_8_18_0_0" data-passage="Ezra 8.18" id="Ezra.8.18"/><sup>18</sup>And according to the good hand of our God upon us they brought us a man of discretion, of the sons of Mahli, the son of Levi, the son of Israel; and Sherebiah, with his sons and his brethren, eighteen; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezra.8.19" data-parsed="Ezra_8_19_0_0" data-passage="Ezra 8.19" id="Ezra.8.19"/><sup>19</sup>and Hashabiah, and with him Jeshaiah of the sons of Merari, his brethren and their sons, twenty;

<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezra.8.20" data-parsed="Ezra_8_20_0_0" data-passage="Ezra 8.20" id="Ezra.8.20"/><sup>20</sup>and of the Nethinim, whom David and the princes had given for the service of the Levites, two hundred and twenty Nethinim: all of them were mentioned by name. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezra.8.21" data-parsed="Ezra_8_21_0_0" data-passage="Ezra 8.21" id="Ezra.8.21"/><sup>21</sup>Then I proclaimed a fast there, at the river Ahava,
that we might humble ourselves before our God, to seek of him a straight way for us, and for our little ones, and for all our substance. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezra.8.22" data-parsed="Ezra_8_22_0_0" data-passage="Ezra 8.22" id="Ezra.8.22"/><sup>22</sup>For I was ashamed to ask of the king a band of soldiers and horsemen to help us against the enemy in the way, because we had spoken unto the king, saying, The hand of our God is upon all them that seek him, for good; but his power and his wrath is against all them that forsake him. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezra.8.23" data-parsed="Ezra_8_23_0_0" data-passage="Ezra 8.23" id="Ezra.8.23"/><sup>23</sup>So we fasted and besought our God for this: and he was entreated of us. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezra.8.24" data-parsed="Ezra_8_24_0_0" data-passage="Ezra 8.24" id="Ezra.8.24"/><sup>24</sup>Then I set apart twelve of the chiefs of the priests, even Sherebiah, Hashabiah, and ten of their brethren with them, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezra.8.25" data-parsed="Ezra_8_25_0_0" data-passage="Ezra 8.25" id="Ezra.8.25"/><sup>25</sup>and weighed unto them the silver, and the gold, and the vessels, even the offering for the house of our God, which the king, and his counsellors, and his princes, and all Israel there present, had offered:

<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezra.8.26" data-parsed="Ezra_8_26_0_0" data-passage="Ezra 8.26" id="Ezra.8.26"/><sup>26</sup>I weighed into their hand six hundred and fifty talents of silver, and silver vessels a hundred talents; of gold a hundred talents; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezra.8.27" data-parsed="Ezra_8_27_0_0" data-passage="Ezra 8.27" id="Ezra.8.27"/><sup>27</sup>and twenty bowls of gold, of a thousand darics; and two vessels of fine bright brass,
precious as gold. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezra.8.28" data-parsed="Ezra_8_28_0_0" data-passage="Ezra 8.28" id="Ezra.8.28"/><sup>28</sup>And I said unto them, Ye are holy unto Jehovah, and the vessels are holy; and the silver and the gold are a freewill-offering unto Jehovah, the God of your fathers. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezra.8.29" data-parsed="Ezra_8_29_0_0" data-passage="Ezra 8.29" id="Ezra.8.29"/><sup>29</sup>Watch ye, and keep them, until ye weigh them before the chiefs of the priests and the Levites, and the princes of the fathers' <i>houses</i> of Israel, at Jerusalem, in the chambers of the house of Jehovah. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezra.8.30" data-parsed="Ezra_8_30_0_0" data-passage="Ezra 8.30" id="Ezra.8.30"/><sup>30</sup>So the priests and the Levites received the weight of the silver and the gold, and the vessels, to bring them to Jerusalem unto the house of our God. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezra.8.31" data-parsed="Ezra_8_31_0_0" data-passage="Ezra 8.31" id="Ezra.8.31"/><sup>31</sup>Then we departed from the river Ahava on the twelfth <i>day</i> of the first month, to go unto Jerusalem: and the hand of our God was upon us, and he delivered us from the hand of the enemy and the lier-in-wait by the way. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezra.8.32" data-parsed="Ezra_8_32_0_0" data-passage="Ezra 8.32" id="Ezra.8.32"/><sup>32</sup>And we came to Jerusalem, and abode there three days. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezra.8.33" data-parsed="Ezra_8_33_0_0" data-passage="Ezra 8.33" id="Ezra.8.33"/><sup>33</sup>And on the fourth day the silver and the gold and the vessels were weighed in the house of our God into the hand of Meremoth the son of Uriah the priest; and with him was Eleazar the son of Phinehas; and with them was Jozabad the son of Jeshua, and Noadiah the son of Binnui, the Levite; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezra.8.34" data-parsed="Ezra_8_34_0_0" data-passage="Ezra 8.34" id="Ezra.8.34"/><sup>34</sup>the whole by number and by weight: and all the weight was written at that time. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezra.8.35" data-parsed="Ezra_8_35_0_0" data-passage="Ezra 8.35" id="Ezra.8.35"/><sup>35</sup>The children of the captivity,
that were come out of exile, offered burnt-offerings unto the God of Israel,
twelve bullocks for all Israel, ninety and six rams, seventy and seven lambs,
twelve he-goats for a sin-offering: all this was a burnt-offering unto Jehovah. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezra.8.36" data-parsed="Ezra_8_36_0_0" data-passage="Ezra 8.36" id="Ezra.8.36"/><sup>36</sup>And they delivered the king's commissions unto the king's satraps, and to the governors beyond the River: and they furthered the people and the house of God.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>