<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Ezra 2</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Ezra 2</span></div><div data-next="Ezra.3" data-prev="Ezra.1" data-progress="42.89%" data-shorttitle="" id="Ezra.2" title="Ezra 2">
<h2 id="Ezra.2-p0.1">2</h2>
<p id="Ezra.2-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezra.2.1" data-parsed="Ezra_2_1_0_0" data-passage="Ezra 2.1" id="Ezra.2.1"/><sup>1</sup>Now these are the children of the province, that went up out of the captivity of those that had been carried away, whom Nebuchadnezzar the king of Babylon had carried away unto Babylon, and that returned unto Jerusalem and Judah, every one unto his city; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezra.2.2" data-parsed="Ezra_2_2_0_0" data-passage="Ezra 2.2" id="Ezra.2.2"/><sup>2</sup>who came with Zerubbabel, Jeshua,
Nehemiah, Seraiah, Reelaiah, Mordecai, Bilshan, Mispar, Bigvai, Rehum,
Baanah. The number of the men of the people of Israel: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezra.2.3" data-parsed="Ezra_2_3_0_0" data-passage="Ezra 2.3" id="Ezra.2.3"/><sup>3</sup>The children of Parosh, two thousand a hundred seventy and two. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezra.2.4" data-parsed="Ezra_2_4_0_0" data-passage="Ezra 2.4" id="Ezra.2.4"/><sup>4</sup>The children of Shephatiah, three hundred seventy and two. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezra.2.5" data-parsed="Ezra_2_5_0_0" data-passage="Ezra 2.5" id="Ezra.2.5"/><sup>5</sup>The children of Arah, seven hundred seventy and five. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezra.2.6" data-parsed="Ezra_2_6_0_0" data-passage="Ezra 2.6" id="Ezra.2.6"/><sup>6</sup>The children of Pahath-moab, of the children of Jeshua <i>and</i> Joab, two thousand eight hundred and twelve. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezra.2.7" data-parsed="Ezra_2_7_0_0" data-passage="Ezra 2.7" id="Ezra.2.7"/><sup>7</sup>The children of Elam, a thousand two hundred fifty and four. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezra.2.8" data-parsed="Ezra_2_8_0_0" data-passage="Ezra 2.8" id="Ezra.2.8"/><sup>8</sup>The children of Zattu, nine hundred forty and five. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezra.2.9" data-parsed="Ezra_2_9_0_0" data-passage="Ezra 2.9" id="Ezra.2.9"/><sup>9</sup>The children of Zaccai, seven hundred and threescore. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezra.2.10" data-parsed="Ezra_2_10_0_0" data-passage="Ezra 2.10" id="Ezra.2.10"/><sup>10</sup>The children of Bani, six hundred forty and two. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezra.2.11" data-parsed="Ezra_2_11_0_0" data-passage="Ezra 2.11" id="Ezra.2.11"/><sup>11</sup>The children of Bebai, six hundred twenty and three. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezra.2.12" data-parsed="Ezra_2_12_0_0" data-passage="Ezra 2.12" id="Ezra.2.12"/><sup>12</sup>The children of Azgad, a thousand two hundred twenty and two. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezra.2.13" data-parsed="Ezra_2_13_0_0" data-passage="Ezra 2.13" id="Ezra.2.13"/><sup>13</sup>The children of Adonikam, six hundred sixty and six. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezra.2.14" data-parsed="Ezra_2_14_0_0" data-passage="Ezra 2.14" id="Ezra.2.14"/><sup>14</sup>The children of Bigvai, two thousand fifty and six. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezra.2.15" data-parsed="Ezra_2_15_0_0" data-passage="Ezra 2.15" id="Ezra.2.15"/><sup>15</sup>The children of Adin, four hundred fifty and four. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezra.2.16" data-parsed="Ezra_2_16_0_0" data-passage="Ezra 2.16" id="Ezra.2.16"/><sup>16</sup>The children of Ater, of Hezekiah, ninety and eight. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezra.2.17" data-parsed="Ezra_2_17_0_0" data-passage="Ezra 2.17" id="Ezra.2.17"/><sup>17</sup>The children of Bezai, three hundred twenty and three. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezra.2.18" data-parsed="Ezra_2_18_0_0" data-passage="Ezra 2.18" id="Ezra.2.18"/><sup>18</sup>The children of Jorah, a hundred and twelve. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezra.2.19" data-parsed="Ezra_2_19_0_0" data-passage="Ezra 2.19" id="Ezra.2.19"/><sup>19</sup>The children of Hashum, two hundred twenty and three. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezra.2.20" data-parsed="Ezra_2_20_0_0" data-passage="Ezra 2.20" id="Ezra.2.20"/><sup>20</sup>The children of Gibbar, ninety and five. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezra.2.21" data-parsed="Ezra_2_21_0_0" data-passage="Ezra 2.21" id="Ezra.2.21"/><sup>21</sup>The children of Beth-lehem, a hundred twenty and three. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezra.2.22" data-parsed="Ezra_2_22_0_0" data-passage="Ezra 2.22" id="Ezra.2.22"/><sup>22</sup>The men of Netophah, fifty and six. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezra.2.23" data-parsed="Ezra_2_23_0_0" data-passage="Ezra 2.23" id="Ezra.2.23"/><sup>23</sup>The men of Anathoth, a hundred twenty and eight. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezra.2.24" data-parsed="Ezra_2_24_0_0" data-passage="Ezra 2.24" id="Ezra.2.24"/><sup>24</sup>The children of Azmaveth, forty and two. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezra.2.25" data-parsed="Ezra_2_25_0_0" data-passage="Ezra 2.25" id="Ezra.2.25"/><sup>25</sup>The children of Kiriath-arim,
Chephirah, and Beeroth, seven hundred and forty and three. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezra.2.26" data-parsed="Ezra_2_26_0_0" data-passage="Ezra 2.26" id="Ezra.2.26"/><sup>26</sup>The children of Ramah and Geba, six hundred twenty and one. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezra.2.27" data-parsed="Ezra_2_27_0_0" data-passage="Ezra 2.27" id="Ezra.2.27"/><sup>27</sup>The men of Michmas, a hundred twenty and two. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezra.2.28" data-parsed="Ezra_2_28_0_0" data-passage="Ezra 2.28" id="Ezra.2.28"/><sup>28</sup>The men of Beth-el and Ai, two hundred twenty and three. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezra.2.29" data-parsed="Ezra_2_29_0_0" data-passage="Ezra 2.29" id="Ezra.2.29"/><sup>29</sup>The children of Nebo, fifty and two. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezra.2.30" data-parsed="Ezra_2_30_0_0" data-passage="Ezra 2.30" id="Ezra.2.30"/><sup>30</sup>The children of Magbish, a hundred fifty and six. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezra.2.31" data-parsed="Ezra_2_31_0_0" data-passage="Ezra 2.31" id="Ezra.2.31"/><sup>31</sup>The children of the other Elam, a thousand two hundred fifty and four. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezra.2.32" data-parsed="Ezra_2_32_0_0" data-passage="Ezra 2.32" id="Ezra.2.32"/><sup>32</sup>The children of Harim, three hundred and twenty. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezra.2.33" data-parsed="Ezra_2_33_0_0" data-passage="Ezra 2.33" id="Ezra.2.33"/><sup>33</sup>The children of Lod, Hadid, and Ono, seven hundred twenty and five. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezra.2.34" data-parsed="Ezra_2_34_0_0" data-passage="Ezra 2.34" id="Ezra.2.34"/><sup>34</sup>The children of Jericho, three hundred forty and five.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezra.2.35" data-parsed="Ezra_2_35_0_0" data-passage="Ezra 2.35" id="Ezra.2.35"/><sup>35</sup>The children of Senaah, three thousand and six hundred and thirty.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezra.2.36" data-parsed="Ezra_2_36_0_0" data-passage="Ezra 2.36" id="Ezra.2.36"/><sup>36</sup>The priests: the children of Jedaiah, of the house of Jeshua, nine hundred seventy and three. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezra.2.37" data-parsed="Ezra_2_37_0_0" data-passage="Ezra 2.37" id="Ezra.2.37"/><sup>37</sup>The children of Immer, a thousand fifty and two. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezra.2.38" data-parsed="Ezra_2_38_0_0" data-passage="Ezra 2.38" id="Ezra.2.38"/><sup>38</sup>The children of Pashhur, a thousand two hundred forty and seven.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezra.2.39" data-parsed="Ezra_2_39_0_0" data-passage="Ezra 2.39" id="Ezra.2.39"/><sup>39</sup>The children of Harim, a thousand and seventeen. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezra.2.40" data-parsed="Ezra_2_40_0_0" data-passage="Ezra 2.40" id="Ezra.2.40"/><sup>40</sup>The Levites: the children of Jeshua and Kadmiel, of the children of Hodaviah, seventy and four. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezra.2.41" data-parsed="Ezra_2_41_0_0" data-passage="Ezra 2.41" id="Ezra.2.41"/><sup>41</sup>The singers: the children of Asaph, a hundred twenty and eight.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezra.2.42" data-parsed="Ezra_2_42_0_0" data-passage="Ezra 2.42" id="Ezra.2.42"/><sup>42</sup>The children of the porters: the children of Shallum, the children of Ater, the children of Talmon, the children of Akkub, the children of Hatita,
the children of Shobai, in all a hundred thirty and nine. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezra.2.43" data-parsed="Ezra_2_43_0_0" data-passage="Ezra 2.43" id="Ezra.2.43"/><sup>43</sup>The Nethinim:
the children of Ziha, the children of Hasupha, the children of Tabbaoth,

<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezra.2.44" data-parsed="Ezra_2_44_0_0" data-passage="Ezra 2.44" id="Ezra.2.44"/><sup>44</sup>the children of Keros, the children of Siaha, the children of Padon,

<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezra.2.45" data-parsed="Ezra_2_45_0_0" data-passage="Ezra 2.45" id="Ezra.2.45"/><sup>45</sup>the children of Lebanah, the children of Hagabah, the children of Akkub, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezra.2.46" data-parsed="Ezra_2_46_0_0" data-passage="Ezra 2.46" id="Ezra.2.46"/><sup>46</sup>the children of Hagab, the children of Shamlai, the children of Hanan, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezra.2.47" data-parsed="Ezra_2_47_0_0" data-passage="Ezra 2.47" id="Ezra.2.47"/><sup>47</sup>the children of Giddel, the children of Gahar, the children of Reaiah, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezra.2.48" data-parsed="Ezra_2_48_0_0" data-passage="Ezra 2.48" id="Ezra.2.48"/><sup>48</sup>the children of Rezin, the children of Nekoda, the children of Gazzam, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezra.2.49" data-parsed="Ezra_2_49_0_0" data-passage="Ezra 2.49" id="Ezra.2.49"/><sup>49</sup>the children of Uzza, the children of Paseah, the children of Besai, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezra.2.50" data-parsed="Ezra_2_50_0_0" data-passage="Ezra 2.50" id="Ezra.2.50"/><sup>50</sup>the children of Asnah, the children of Meunim, the children of Nephisim, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezra.2.51" data-parsed="Ezra_2_51_0_0" data-passage="Ezra 2.51" id="Ezra.2.51"/><sup>51</sup>the children of Bakbuk, the children of Hakupha, the children of Harhur, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezra.2.52" data-parsed="Ezra_2_52_0_0" data-passage="Ezra 2.52" id="Ezra.2.52"/><sup>52</sup>the children of Bazluth, the children of Mehida, the children of Harsha, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezra.2.53" data-parsed="Ezra_2_53_0_0" data-passage="Ezra 2.53" id="Ezra.2.53"/><sup>53</sup>the children of Barkos, the children of Sisera, the children of Temah, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezra.2.54" data-parsed="Ezra_2_54_0_0" data-passage="Ezra 2.54" id="Ezra.2.54"/><sup>54</sup>the children of Neziah, the children of Hatipha.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezra.2.55" data-parsed="Ezra_2_55_0_0" data-passage="Ezra 2.55" id="Ezra.2.55"/><sup>55</sup>The children of Solomon's servants: the children of Sotai, the children of Hassophereth, the children of Peruda, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezra.2.56" data-parsed="Ezra_2_56_0_0" data-passage="Ezra 2.56" id="Ezra.2.56"/><sup>56</sup>the children of Jaalah, the children of Darkon, the children of Giddel, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezra.2.57" data-parsed="Ezra_2_57_0_0" data-passage="Ezra 2.57" id="Ezra.2.57"/><sup>57</sup>the children of Shephatiah,
the children of Hattil, the children of Pochereth-hazzebaim, the children of Ami. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezra.2.58" data-parsed="Ezra_2_58_0_0" data-passage="Ezra 2.58" id="Ezra.2.58"/><sup>58</sup>All the Nethinim, and the children of Solomon's servants, were three hundred ninety and two. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezra.2.59" data-parsed="Ezra_2_59_0_0" data-passage="Ezra 2.59" id="Ezra.2.59"/><sup>59</sup>And these were they that went up from Tel-melah, Tel-harsha, Cherub, Addan, <i>and</i> Immer; but they could not show their fathers' houses, and their seed, whether they were of Israel:

<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezra.2.60" data-parsed="Ezra_2_60_0_0" data-passage="Ezra 2.60" id="Ezra.2.60"/><sup>60</sup>the children of Delaiah, the children of Tobiah, the children of Nekoda, six hundred fifty and two. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezra.2.61" data-parsed="Ezra_2_61_0_0" data-passage="Ezra 2.61" id="Ezra.2.61"/><sup>61</sup>And of the children of the priests:
the children of Habaiah, the children of Hakkoz, the children of Barzillai,
who took a wife of the daughters of Barzillai the Gileadite, and was called after their name. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezra.2.62" data-parsed="Ezra_2_62_0_0" data-passage="Ezra 2.62" id="Ezra.2.62"/><sup>62</sup>These sought their register <i>among</i> those that were reckoned by genealogy, but they were not found: therefore were they deemed polluted and put from the priesthood. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezra.2.63" data-parsed="Ezra_2_63_0_0" data-passage="Ezra 2.63" id="Ezra.2.63"/><sup>63</sup>And the governor said unto them, that they should not eat of the most holy things, till there stood up a priest with Urim and with Thummim. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezra.2.64" data-parsed="Ezra_2_64_0_0" data-passage="Ezra 2.64" id="Ezra.2.64"/><sup>64</sup>The whole assembly together was forty and two thousand three hundred and threescore, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezra.2.65" data-parsed="Ezra_2_65_0_0" data-passage="Ezra 2.65" id="Ezra.2.65"/><sup>65</sup>besides their men-servants and their maid-servants, of whom there were seven thousand three hundred thirty and seven: and they had two hundred singing men and singing women. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezra.2.66" data-parsed="Ezra_2_66_0_0" data-passage="Ezra 2.66" id="Ezra.2.66"/><sup>66</sup>Their horses were seven hundred thirty and six; their mules, two hundred forty and five; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezra.2.67" data-parsed="Ezra_2_67_0_0" data-passage="Ezra 2.67" id="Ezra.2.67"/><sup>67</sup>their camels, four hundred thirty and five;
<i>their</i> asses, six thousand seven hundred and twenty. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezra.2.68" data-parsed="Ezra_2_68_0_0" data-passage="Ezra 2.68" id="Ezra.2.68"/><sup>68</sup>And some of the heads of fathers' <i>houses</i>, when they came to the house of Jehovah which is in Jerusalem, offered willingly for the house of God to set it up in its place: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezra.2.69" data-parsed="Ezra_2_69_0_0" data-passage="Ezra 2.69" id="Ezra.2.69"/><sup>69</sup>they gave after their ability into the treasury of the work threescore and one thousand darics of gold, and five thousand pounds of silver, and one hundred priests' garments. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezra.2.70" data-parsed="Ezra_2_70_0_0" data-passage="Ezra 2.70" id="Ezra.2.70"/><sup>70</sup>So the priests, and the Levites, and some of the people, and the singers, and the porters, and the Nethinim, dwelt in their cities, and all Israel in their cities.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>