<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Ezra 5</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Ezra 5</span></div><div data-next="Ezra.6" data-prev="Ezra.4" data-progress="43.20%" data-shorttitle="" id="Ezra.5" title="Ezra 5">
<h2 id="Ezra.5-p0.1">5</h2>
<p id="Ezra.5-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezra.5.1" data-parsed="Ezra_5_1_0_0" data-passage="Ezra 5.1" id="Ezra.5.1"/><sup>1</sup>Now the prophets, Haggai the prophet, and Zechariah the son of Iddo,
prophesied unto the Jews that were in Judah and Jerusalem; in the name of the God of Israel <i>prophesied they</i> unto them. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezra.5.2" data-parsed="Ezra_5_2_0_0" data-passage="Ezra 5.2" id="Ezra.5.2"/><sup>2</sup>Then rose up Zerubbabel the son of Shealtiel, and Jeshua the son of Jozadak, and began to build the house of God which is at Jerusalem; and with them were the prophets of God,
helping them. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezra.5.3" data-parsed="Ezra_5_3_0_0" data-passage="Ezra 5.3" id="Ezra.5.3"/><sup>3</sup>At the same time came to them Tattenai, the governor beyond the River, and Shethar-bozenai, and their companions, and said thus unto them, Who gave you a decree to build this house, and to finish this wall? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezra.5.4" data-parsed="Ezra_5_4_0_0" data-passage="Ezra 5.4" id="Ezra.5.4"/><sup>4</sup>Then we told them after this manner, what the names of the men were that were making this building. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezra.5.5" data-parsed="Ezra_5_5_0_0" data-passage="Ezra 5.5" id="Ezra.5.5"/><sup>5</sup>But the eye of their God was upon the elders of the Jews, and they did not make them cease, till the matter should come to Darius, and then answer should be returned by letter concerning it. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezra.5.6" data-parsed="Ezra_5_6_0_0" data-passage="Ezra 5.6" id="Ezra.5.6"/><sup>6</sup>The copy of the letter that Tattenai, the governor beyond the River, and Shethar-bozenai, and his companions the Apharsachites, who were beyond the River, sent unto Darius the king; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezra.5.7" data-parsed="Ezra_5_7_0_0" data-passage="Ezra 5.7" id="Ezra.5.7"/><sup>7</sup>they sent a letter unto him, wherein was written thus: Unto Darius the king, all peace. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezra.5.8" data-parsed="Ezra_5_8_0_0" data-passage="Ezra 5.8" id="Ezra.5.8"/><sup>8</sup>Be it known unto the king, that we went into the province of Judah, to the house of the great God, which is builded with great stones, and timber is laid in the walls; and this work goeth on with diligence and prospereth in their hands. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezra.5.9" data-parsed="Ezra_5_9_0_0" data-passage="Ezra 5.9" id="Ezra.5.9"/><sup>9</sup>Then asked we those elders, and said unto them thus, Who gave you a decree to build this house, and to finish this wall? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezra.5.10" data-parsed="Ezra_5_10_0_0" data-passage="Ezra 5.10" id="Ezra.5.10"/><sup>10</sup>We asked them their names also, to certify thee, that we might write the names of the men that were at the head of them. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezra.5.11" data-parsed="Ezra_5_11_0_0" data-passage="Ezra 5.11" id="Ezra.5.11"/><sup>11</sup>And thus they returned us answer,
saying, We are the servants of the God of heaven and earth, and are building the house that was builded these many years ago, which a great king of Israel builded and finished. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezra.5.12" data-parsed="Ezra_5_12_0_0" data-passage="Ezra 5.12" id="Ezra.5.12"/><sup>12</sup>But after that our fathers had provoked the God of heaven unto wrath, he gave them into the hand of Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon, the Chaldean, who destroyed this house, and carried the people away into Babylon. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezra.5.13" data-parsed="Ezra_5_13_0_0" data-passage="Ezra 5.13" id="Ezra.5.13"/><sup>13</sup>But in the first year of Cyrus king of Babylon, Cyrus the king made a decree to build this house of God. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezra.5.14" data-parsed="Ezra_5_14_0_0" data-passage="Ezra 5.14" id="Ezra.5.14"/><sup>14</sup>And the gold and silver vessels also of the house of God, which Nebuchadnezzar took out of the temple that was in Jerusalem, and brought into the temple of Babylon, those did Cyrus the king take out of the temple of Babylon, and they were delivered unto one whose name was Sheshbazzar, whom he had made governor; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezra.5.15" data-parsed="Ezra_5_15_0_0" data-passage="Ezra 5.15" id="Ezra.5.15"/><sup>15</sup>and he said unto him, Take these vessels, go, put them in the temple that is in Jerusalem, and let the house of God be builded in its place. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezra.5.16" data-parsed="Ezra_5_16_0_0" data-passage="Ezra 5.16" id="Ezra.5.16"/><sup>16</sup>Then came the same Sheshbazzar, and laid the foundations of the house of God which is in Jerusalem: and since that time even until now hath it been in building,
and yet it is not completed. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezra.5.17" data-parsed="Ezra_5_17_0_0" data-passage="Ezra 5.17" id="Ezra.5.17"/><sup>17</sup>Now therefore, if it seem good to the king, let there be search made in the king's treasure-house, which is there at Babylon, whether it be so, that a decree was made of Cyrus the king to build this house of God at Jerusalem; and let the king send his pleasure to us concerning this matter.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>