<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Ezra 7</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Ezra 7</span></div><div data-next="Ezra.8" data-prev="Ezra.6" data-progress="43.37%" data-shorttitle="" id="Ezra.7" title="Ezra 7">
<h2 id="Ezra.7-p0.1">7</h2>
<p id="Ezra.7-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezra.7.1" data-parsed="Ezra_7_1_0_0" data-passage="Ezra 7.1" id="Ezra.7.1"/><sup>1</sup>Now after these things, in the reign of Artaxerxes king of Persia,
Ezra the son of Seraiah, the son of Azariah, the son of Hilkiah, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezra.7.2" data-parsed="Ezra_7_2_0_0" data-passage="Ezra 7.2" id="Ezra.7.2"/><sup>2</sup>the son of Shallum, the son of Zadok, the son of Ahitub, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezra.7.3" data-parsed="Ezra_7_3_0_0" data-passage="Ezra 7.3" id="Ezra.7.3"/><sup>3</sup>the son of Amariah, the son of Azariah, the son of Meraioth, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezra.7.4" data-parsed="Ezra_7_4_0_0" data-passage="Ezra 7.4" id="Ezra.7.4"/><sup>4</sup>the son of Zerahiah, the son of Uzzi, the son of Bukki, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezra.7.5" data-parsed="Ezra_7_5_0_0" data-passage="Ezra 7.5" id="Ezra.7.5"/><sup>5</sup>the son of Abishua, the son of Phinehas, the son of Eleazar, the son of Aaron the chief priest; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezra.7.6" data-parsed="Ezra_7_6_0_0" data-passage="Ezra 7.6" id="Ezra.7.6"/><sup>6</sup>this Ezra went up from Babylon: and he was a ready scribe in the law of Moses, which Jehovah, the God of Israel, had given; and the king granted him all his request, according to the hand of Jehovah his God upon him. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezra.7.7" data-parsed="Ezra_7_7_0_0" data-passage="Ezra 7.7" id="Ezra.7.7"/><sup>7</sup>And there went up some of the children of Israel, and of the priests, and the Levites, and the singers, and the porters, and the Nethinim, unto Jerusalem, in the seventh year of Artaxerxes the king. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezra.7.8" data-parsed="Ezra_7_8_0_0" data-passage="Ezra 7.8" id="Ezra.7.8"/><sup>8</sup>And he came to Jerusalem in the fifth month, which was in the seventh year of the king. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezra.7.9" data-parsed="Ezra_7_9_0_0" data-passage="Ezra 7.9" id="Ezra.7.9"/><sup>9</sup>For upon the first <i>day</i> of the first month began he to go up from Babylon; and on the first <i>day</i>
of the fifth month came he to Jerusalem, according to the good hand of his God upon him. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezra.7.10" data-parsed="Ezra_7_10_0_0" data-passage="Ezra 7.10" id="Ezra.7.10"/><sup>10</sup>For Ezra had set his heart to seek the law of Jehovah,
and to do it, and to teach in Israel statutes and ordinances. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezra.7.11" data-parsed="Ezra_7_11_0_0" data-passage="Ezra 7.11" id="Ezra.7.11"/><sup>11</sup>Now this is the copy of the letter that the king Artaxerxes gave unto Ezra the priest,
the scribe, even the scribe of the words of the commandments of Jehovah, and of his statutes to Israel: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezra.7.12" data-parsed="Ezra_7_12_0_0" data-passage="Ezra 7.12" id="Ezra.7.12"/><sup>12</sup>Artaxerxes, king of kings, unto Ezra the priest, the scribe of the law of the God of heaven, perfect and so forth.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezra.7.13" data-parsed="Ezra_7_13_0_0" data-passage="Ezra 7.13" id="Ezra.7.13"/><sup>13</sup>I make a decree, that all they of the people of Israel, and their priests and the Levites, in my realm, that are minded of their own free will to go to Jerusalem, go with thee. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezra.7.14" data-parsed="Ezra_7_14_0_0" data-passage="Ezra 7.14" id="Ezra.7.14"/><sup>14</sup>Forasmuch as thou art sent of the king and his seven counsellors, to inquire concerning Judah and Jerusalem,
according to the law of thy God which is in thy hand, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezra.7.15" data-parsed="Ezra_7_15_0_0" data-passage="Ezra 7.15" id="Ezra.7.15"/><sup>15</sup>and to carry the silver and gold, which the king and his counsellors have freely offered unto the God of Israel, whose habitation is in Jerusalem, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezra.7.16" data-parsed="Ezra_7_16_0_0" data-passage="Ezra 7.16" id="Ezra.7.16"/><sup>16</sup>and all the silver and gold that thou shalt find in all the province of Babylon, with the freewill-offering of the people, and of the priests, offering willingly for the house of their God which is in Jerusalem; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezra.7.17" data-parsed="Ezra_7_17_0_0" data-passage="Ezra 7.17" id="Ezra.7.17"/><sup>17</sup>therefore thou shalt with all diligence buy with this money bullocks, rams, lambs, with their meal-offerings and their drink-offerings, and shalt offer them upon the altar of the house of your God which is in Jerusalem. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezra.7.18" data-parsed="Ezra_7_18_0_0" data-passage="Ezra 7.18" id="Ezra.7.18"/><sup>18</sup>And whatsoever shall seem good to thee and to thy brethren to do with the rest of the silver and the gold, that do ye after the will of your God. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezra.7.19" data-parsed="Ezra_7_19_0_0" data-passage="Ezra 7.19" id="Ezra.7.19"/><sup>19</sup>And the vessels that are given thee for the service of the house of thy God, deliver thou before the God of Jerusalem. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezra.7.20" data-parsed="Ezra_7_20_0_0" data-passage="Ezra 7.20" id="Ezra.7.20"/><sup>20</sup>And whatsoever more shall be needful for the house of thy God, which thou shalt have occasion to bestow, bestow it out of the king's treasure-house. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezra.7.21" data-parsed="Ezra_7_21_0_0" data-passage="Ezra 7.21" id="Ezra.7.21"/><sup>21</sup>And I, even I Artaxerxes the king, do make a decree to all the treasurers that are beyond the River, that whatsoever Ezra the priest, the scribe of the law of the God of heaven, shall require of you,
it be done with all diligence, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezra.7.22" data-parsed="Ezra_7_22_0_0" data-passage="Ezra 7.22" id="Ezra.7.22"/><sup>22</sup>unto a hundred talents of silver, and to a hundred measures of wheat, and to a hundred baths of wine, and to a hundred baths of oil, and salt without prescribing how much. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezra.7.23" data-parsed="Ezra_7_23_0_0" data-passage="Ezra 7.23" id="Ezra.7.23"/><sup>23</sup>Whatsoever is commanded by the God of heaven, let it be done exactly for the house of the God of heaven; for why should there be wrath against the realm of the king and his sons? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezra.7.24" data-parsed="Ezra_7_24_0_0" data-passage="Ezra 7.24" id="Ezra.7.24"/><sup>24</sup>Also we certify you, that touching any of the priests and Levites, the singers, porters, Nethinim, or servants of this house of God, it shall not be lawful to impose tribute, custom, or toll, upon them. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezra.7.25" data-parsed="Ezra_7_25_0_0" data-passage="Ezra 7.25" id="Ezra.7.25"/><sup>25</sup>And thou, Ezra, after the wisdom of thy God that is in thy hand, appoint magistrates and judges, who may judge all the people that are beyond the River, all such as know the laws of thy God; and teach ye him that knoweth them not. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezra.7.26" data-parsed="Ezra_7_26_0_0" data-passage="Ezra 7.26" id="Ezra.7.26"/><sup>26</sup>And whosoever will not do the law of thy God, and the law of the king, let judgment be executed upon him with all diligence, whether it be unto death, or to banishment, or to confiscation of goods, or to imprisonment. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezra.7.27" data-parsed="Ezra_7_27_0_0" data-passage="Ezra 7.27" id="Ezra.7.27"/><sup>27</sup>Blessed be Jehovah, the God of our fathers, who hath put such a thing as this in the king's heart, to beautify the house of Jehovah which is in Jerusalem; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ezra.7.28" data-parsed="Ezra_7_28_0_0" data-passage="Ezra 7.28" id="Ezra.7.28"/><sup>28</sup>and hath extended lovingkindness unto me before the king, and his counsellors, and before all the king's mighty princes. And I was strengthened according to the hand of Jehovah my God upon me, and I gathered together out of Israel chief men to go up with me.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>