<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Galatians 3</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Galatians 3</span></div><div data-next="Gal.4" data-prev="Gal.2" data-progress="94.06%" data-shorttitle="" id="Gal.3" title="Galatians 3">
<h2 id="Gal.3-p0.1">3</h2>
<p id="Gal.3-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gal.3.1" data-parsed="Gal_3_1_0_0" data-passage="Gal 3.1" id="Gal.3.1"/><sup>1</sup>O foolish Galatians, who did bewitch you, before whose eyes Jesus Christ was openly set forth crucified? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gal.3.2" data-parsed="Gal_3_2_0_0" data-passage="Gal 3.2" id="Gal.3.2"/><sup>2</sup>This only would I learn from you.
Received ye the Spirit by the works of the law, or by the hearing of faith?

<span data-osisref="Bible:Gal.3.3" data-parsed="Gal_3_3_0_0" data-passage="Gal 3.3" id="Gal.3.3"/><sup>3</sup>Are ye so foolish? having begun in the Spirit, are ye now perfected in the flesh? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gal.3.4" data-parsed="Gal_3_4_0_0" data-passage="Gal 3.4" id="Gal.3.4"/><sup>4</sup>Did ye suffer so many things in vain? if it be indeed in vain. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gal.3.5" data-parsed="Gal_3_5_0_0" data-passage="Gal 3.5" id="Gal.3.5"/><sup>5</sup>He therefore that supplieth to you the Spirit, and worketh miracles among you, <i>doeth he it</i> by the works of the law, or by the hearing of faith? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gal.3.6" data-parsed="Gal_3_6_0_0" data-passage="Gal 3.6" id="Gal.3.6"/><sup>6</sup>Even as Abraham believed God, and it was reckoned unto him for righteousness. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gal.3.7" data-parsed="Gal_3_7_0_0" data-passage="Gal 3.7" id="Gal.3.7"/><sup>7</sup>Know therefore that they that are of faith, the same are sons of Abraham. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gal.3.8" data-parsed="Gal_3_8_0_0" data-passage="Gal 3.8" id="Gal.3.8"/><sup>8</sup>And the span, foreseeing that God would justify the Gentiles by faith, preached the gospel beforehand unto Abraham,
<i>saying,</i> In thee shall all the nations be blessed. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gal.3.9" data-parsed="Gal_3_9_0_0" data-passage="Gal 3.9" id="Gal.3.9"/><sup>9</sup>So then they that are of faith are blessed with the faithful Abraham. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gal.3.10" data-parsed="Gal_3_10_0_0" data-passage="Gal 3.10" id="Gal.3.10"/><sup>10</sup>For as many as are of the works of the law are under a curse: for it is written, Cursed is every one who continueth not in all things that are written in the book of the law, to do them. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gal.3.11" data-parsed="Gal_3_11_0_0" data-passage="Gal 3.11" id="Gal.3.11"/><sup>11</sup>Now that no man is justified by the law before God, is evident: for, The righteous shall live by faith; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gal.3.12" data-parsed="Gal_3_12_0_0" data-passage="Gal 3.12" id="Gal.3.12"/><sup>12</sup>and the law is not of faith; but, He that doeth them shall live in them. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gal.3.13" data-parsed="Gal_3_13_0_0" data-passage="Gal 3.13" id="Gal.3.13"/><sup>13</sup>Christ redeemed us from the curse of the law, having become a curse for us; for it is written, Cursed is every one that hangeth on a tree: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gal.3.14" data-parsed="Gal_3_14_0_0" data-passage="Gal 3.14" id="Gal.3.14"/><sup>14</sup>that upon the Gentiles might come the blessing of Abraham in Christ Jesus; that we might receive the promise of the Spirit through faith. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gal.3.15" data-parsed="Gal_3_15_0_0" data-passage="Gal 3.15" id="Gal.3.15"/><sup>15</sup>Brethren, I speak after the manner of men: Though it be but a man's covenant, yet when it hath been confirmed, no one maketh it void, or addeth thereto. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gal.3.16" data-parsed="Gal_3_16_0_0" data-passage="Gal 3.16" id="Gal.3.16"/><sup>16</sup>Now to Abraham were the promises spoken, and to his seed. He saith not, And to seeds, as of many; but as of one, And to thy seed, which is Christ. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gal.3.17" data-parsed="Gal_3_17_0_0" data-passage="Gal 3.17" id="Gal.3.17"/><sup>17</sup>Now this I say: A covenant confirmed beforehand by God, the law, which came four hundred and thirty years after, doth not disannul, so as to make the promise of none effect. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gal.3.18" data-parsed="Gal_3_18_0_0" data-passage="Gal 3.18" id="Gal.3.18"/><sup>18</sup>For if the inheritance is of the law, it is no more of promise: but God hath granted it to Abraham by promise. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gal.3.19" data-parsed="Gal_3_19_0_0" data-passage="Gal 3.19" id="Gal.3.19"/><sup>19</sup>What then is the law? It was added because of transgressions, till the seed should come to whom the promise hath been made; <i>and it was</i> ordained through angels by the hand of a mediator. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gal.3.20" data-parsed="Gal_3_20_0_0" data-passage="Gal 3.20" id="Gal.3.20"/><sup>20</sup>Now a mediator is not <i>a mediator</i> of one; but God is one. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gal.3.21" data-parsed="Gal_3_21_0_0" data-passage="Gal 3.21" id="Gal.3.21"/><sup>21</sup>Is the law then against the promises of God? God forbid: for if there had been a law given which could make alive, verily righteousness would have been of the law. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gal.3.22" data-parsed="Gal_3_22_0_0" data-passage="Gal 3.22" id="Gal.3.22"/><sup>22</sup>But the spans shut up all things under sin, that the promise by faith in Jesus Christ might be given to them that believe. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gal.3.23" data-parsed="Gal_3_23_0_0" data-passage="Gal 3.23" id="Gal.3.23"/><sup>23</sup>But before faith came, we were kept in ward under the law, shut up unto the faith which should afterwards be revealed.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Gal.3.24" data-parsed="Gal_3_24_0_0" data-passage="Gal 3.24" id="Gal.3.24"/><sup>24</sup>So that the law is become our tutor <i>to bring us</i> unto Christ,
that we might be justified by faith. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gal.3.25" data-parsed="Gal_3_25_0_0" data-passage="Gal 3.25" id="Gal.3.25"/><sup>25</sup>But now faith that is come, we are no longer under a tutor. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gal.3.26" data-parsed="Gal_3_26_0_0" data-passage="Gal 3.26" id="Gal.3.26"/><sup>26</sup>For ye are all sons of God, through faith, in Christ Jesus. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gal.3.27" data-parsed="Gal_3_27_0_0" data-passage="Gal 3.27" id="Gal.3.27"/><sup>27</sup>For as many of you as were baptized into Christ did put on Christ. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gal.3.28" data-parsed="Gal_3_28_0_0" data-passage="Gal 3.28" id="Gal.3.28"/><sup>28</sup>There can be neither Jew nor Greek, there can be neither bond nor free, there can be no male and female; for ye all are one <i>man</i> in Christ Jesus. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gal.3.29" data-parsed="Gal_3_29_0_0" data-passage="Gal 3.29" id="Gal.3.29"/><sup>29</sup>And if ye are Christ's, then are ye Abraham's seed, heirs according to promise.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>