<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Galatians 4</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Galatians 4</span></div><div data-next="Gal.5" data-prev="Gal.3" data-progress="94.14%" data-shorttitle="" id="Gal.4" title="Galatians 4">
<h2 id="Gal.4-p0.1">4</h2>
<p id="Gal.4-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gal.4.1" data-parsed="Gal_4_1_0_0" data-passage="Gal 4.1" id="Gal.4.1"/><sup>1</sup>But I say that so long as the heir is a child, he differeth nothing from a bondservant though he is lord of all; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gal.4.2" data-parsed="Gal_4_2_0_0" data-passage="Gal 4.2" id="Gal.4.2"/><sup>2</sup>but is under guardians and stewards until the day appointed of the father. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gal.4.3" data-parsed="Gal_4_3_0_0" data-passage="Gal 4.3" id="Gal.4.3"/><sup>3</sup>So we also, when we were children, were held in bondage under the rudiments of the world: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gal.4.4" data-parsed="Gal_4_4_0_0" data-passage="Gal 4.4" id="Gal.4.4"/><sup>4</sup>but when the fulness of the time came, God sent forth his Son, born of a woman,
born under the law, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gal.4.5" data-parsed="Gal_4_5_0_0" data-passage="Gal 4.5" id="Gal.4.5"/><sup>5</sup>that he might redeem them that were under the law,
that we might receive the adoption of sons. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gal.4.6" data-parsed="Gal_4_6_0_0" data-passage="Gal 4.6" id="Gal.4.6"/><sup>6</sup>And because ye are sons, God sent forth the Spirit of his Son into our hearts, crying, Abba, Father.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Gal.4.7" data-parsed="Gal_4_7_0_0" data-passage="Gal 4.7" id="Gal.4.7"/><sup>7</sup>So that thou art no longer a bondservant, but a son; and if a son, then an heir through God. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gal.4.8" data-parsed="Gal_4_8_0_0" data-passage="Gal 4.8" id="Gal.4.8"/><sup>8</sup>Howbeit at that time, not knowing God, ye were in bondage to them that by nature are no gods: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gal.4.9" data-parsed="Gal_4_9_0_0" data-passage="Gal 4.9" id="Gal.4.9"/><sup>9</sup>but now that ye have come to know God, or rather to be known by God, how turn ye back again to the weak and beggarly rudiments, whereunto ye desire to be in bondage over again?

<span data-osisref="Bible:Gal.4.10" data-parsed="Gal_4_10_0_0" data-passage="Gal 4.10" id="Gal.4.10"/><sup>10</sup>Ye observe days, and months, and seasons, and years. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gal.4.11" data-parsed="Gal_4_11_0_0" data-passage="Gal 4.11" id="Gal.4.11"/><sup>11</sup>I am afraid of you, lest by any means I have bestowed labor upon you in vain. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gal.4.12" data-parsed="Gal_4_12_0_0" data-passage="Gal 4.12" id="Gal.4.12"/><sup>12</sup>I beseech you, brethren, become as I <i>am</i>, for I also <i>am become</i>
as ye <i>are</i>. Ye did me no wrong: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gal.4.13" data-parsed="Gal_4_13_0_0" data-passage="Gal 4.13" id="Gal.4.13"/><sup>13</sup>but ye know that because of an infirmity of the flesh I preached the gospel unto you the first time:

<span data-osisref="Bible:Gal.4.14" data-parsed="Gal_4_14_0_0" data-passage="Gal 4.14" id="Gal.4.14"/><sup>14</sup>and that which was a temptation to you in my flesh ye despised not, nor rejected; but ye received me as an angel of God, <i>even</i> as Christ Jesus. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gal.4.15" data-parsed="Gal_4_15_0_0" data-passage="Gal 4.15" id="Gal.4.15"/><sup>15</sup>Where then is that gratulation of yourselves? for I bear you witness, that, if possible, ye would have plucked out your eyes and given them to me. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gal.4.16" data-parsed="Gal_4_16_0_0" data-passage="Gal 4.16" id="Gal.4.16"/><sup>16</sup>So then am I become your enemy, by telling you the truth?

<span data-osisref="Bible:Gal.4.17" data-parsed="Gal_4_17_0_0" data-passage="Gal 4.17" id="Gal.4.17"/><sup>17</sup>They zealously seek you in no good way; nay, they desire to shut you out, that ye may seek them. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gal.4.18" data-parsed="Gal_4_18_0_0" data-passage="Gal 4.18" id="Gal.4.18"/><sup>18</sup>But it is good to be zealously sought in a good matter at all times, and not only when I am present with you. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gal.4.19" data-parsed="Gal_4_19_0_0" data-passage="Gal 4.19" id="Gal.4.19"/><sup>19</sup>My little children, of whom I am again in travail until Christ be formed in you-- 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gal.4.20" data-parsed="Gal_4_20_0_0" data-passage="Gal 4.20" id="Gal.4.20"/><sup>20</sup>but I could wish to be present with you now, and to change my tone; for I am perplexed about you. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gal.4.21" data-parsed="Gal_4_21_0_0" data-passage="Gal 4.21" id="Gal.4.21"/><sup>21</sup>Tell me, ye that desire to be under the law, do ye not hear the law? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gal.4.22" data-parsed="Gal_4_22_0_0" data-passage="Gal 4.22" id="Gal.4.22"/><sup>22</sup>For it is written, that Abraham had two sons, one by the handmaid, and one by the freewoman. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gal.4.23" data-parsed="Gal_4_23_0_0" data-passage="Gal 4.23" id="Gal.4.23"/><sup>23</sup>Howbeit the <i>son</i> by the handmaid is born after the flesh; but the <i>son</i> by the freewoman <i>is born</i> through promise. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gal.4.24" data-parsed="Gal_4_24_0_0" data-passage="Gal 4.24" id="Gal.4.24"/><sup>24</sup>Which things contain an allegory: for these <i>women</i> are two covenants; one from mount Sinai,
bearing children unto bondage, which is Hagar. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gal.4.25" data-parsed="Gal_4_25_0_0" data-passage="Gal 4.25" id="Gal.4.25"/><sup>25</sup>Now this Hagar is mount Sinai in Arabia and answereth to the Jerusalem that now is: for she is in bondage with her children. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gal.4.26" data-parsed="Gal_4_26_0_0" data-passage="Gal 4.26" id="Gal.4.26"/><sup>26</sup>But the Jerusalem that is above is free,
which is our mother. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gal.4.27" data-parsed="Gal_4_27_0_0" data-passage="Gal 4.27" id="Gal.4.27"/><sup>27</sup>For it is written,</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Gal.4-p2">
Rejoice, thou barren that bearest not;</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Gal.4-p3">
Break forth and cry, thou that travailest not:</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Gal.4-p4">
For more are the children of the desolate than of her that hath the husband.</p>
<p id="Gal.4-p5">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gal.4.28" data-parsed="Gal_4_28_0_0" data-passage="Gal 4.28" id="Gal.4.28"/><sup>28</sup>Now we, brethren, as Isaac was, are children of promise. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gal.4.29" data-parsed="Gal_4_29_0_0" data-passage="Gal 4.29" id="Gal.4.29"/><sup>29</sup>But as then he that was born after the flesh persecuted him <i>that was born</i>
after the Spirit, so also it is now. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gal.4.30" data-parsed="Gal_4_30_0_0" data-passage="Gal 4.30" id="Gal.4.30"/><sup>30</sup>Howbeit what saith the span?
Cast out the handmaid and her son: for the son of the handmaid shall not inherit with the son of the freewoman. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gal.4.31" data-parsed="Gal_4_31_0_0" data-passage="Gal 4.31" id="Gal.4.31"/><sup>31</sup>Wherefore, brethren, we are not children of a handmaid, but of the freewoman.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>