<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Galatians 5</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Galatians 5</span></div><div data-next="Gal.6" data-prev="Gal.4" data-progress="94.22%" data-shorttitle="" id="Gal.5" title="Galatians 5">
<h2 id="Gal.5-p0.1">5</h2>
<p id="Gal.5-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gal.5.1" data-parsed="Gal_5_1_0_0" data-passage="Gal 5.1" id="Gal.5.1"/><sup>1</sup>For freedom did Christ set us free: stand fast therefore, and be not entangled again in a yoke of bondage. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gal.5.2" data-parsed="Gal_5_2_0_0" data-passage="Gal 5.2" id="Gal.5.2"/><sup>2</sup>Behold, I Paul say unto you, that,
if ye receive circumcision, Christ will profit you nothing. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gal.5.3" data-parsed="Gal_5_3_0_0" data-passage="Gal 5.3" id="Gal.5.3"/><sup>3</sup>Yea, I testify again to every man that receiveth circumcision, that he is a debtor to do the whole law. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gal.5.4" data-parsed="Gal_5_4_0_0" data-passage="Gal 5.4" id="Gal.5.4"/><sup>4</sup>Ye are severed from Christ, ye would be justified by the law; ye are fallen away from grace. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gal.5.5" data-parsed="Gal_5_5_0_0" data-passage="Gal 5.5" id="Gal.5.5"/><sup>5</sup>For we through the Spirit by faith wait for the hope of righteousness. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gal.5.6" data-parsed="Gal_5_6_0_0" data-passage="Gal 5.6" id="Gal.5.6"/><sup>6</sup>For in Christ Jesus neither circumcision availeth anything, nor uncircumcision; but faith working through love. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gal.5.7" data-parsed="Gal_5_7_0_0" data-passage="Gal 5.7" id="Gal.5.7"/><sup>7</sup>Ye were running well; who hindered you that ye should not obey the truth? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gal.5.8" data-parsed="Gal_5_8_0_0" data-passage="Gal 5.8" id="Gal.5.8"/><sup>8</sup>This persuasion <i>came</i> not of him that calleth you. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gal.5.9" data-parsed="Gal_5_9_0_0" data-passage="Gal 5.9" id="Gal.5.9"/><sup>9</sup>A little leaven leaveneth the whole lump. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gal.5.10" data-parsed="Gal_5_10_0_0" data-passage="Gal 5.10" id="Gal.5.10"/><sup>10</sup>I have confidence to you-ward in the Lord, that ye will be none otherwise minded: but he that troubleth you shall bear his judgment, whosoever he be. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gal.5.11" data-parsed="Gal_5_11_0_0" data-passage="Gal 5.11" id="Gal.5.11"/><sup>11</sup>But I, brethren, if I still preach circumcision, why am I still persecuted? then hath the stumbling-block of the cross been done away. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gal.5.12" data-parsed="Gal_5_12_0_0" data-passage="Gal 5.12" id="Gal.5.12"/><sup>12</sup>I would that they that unsettle you would even go beyond circumcision. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gal.5.13" data-parsed="Gal_5_13_0_0" data-passage="Gal 5.13" id="Gal.5.13"/><sup>13</sup>For ye, brethren, were called for freedom;
only <i>use</i> not your freedom for an occasion to the flesh, but through love be servants one to another. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gal.5.14" data-parsed="Gal_5_14_0_0" data-passage="Gal 5.14" id="Gal.5.14"/><sup>14</sup>For the whole law is fulfilled in one word, <i>even</i> in this: Thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Gal.5.15" data-parsed="Gal_5_15_0_0" data-passage="Gal 5.15" id="Gal.5.15"/><sup>15</sup>But if ye bite and devour one another, take heed that ye be not consumed one of another. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gal.5.16" data-parsed="Gal_5_16_0_0" data-passage="Gal 5.16" id="Gal.5.16"/><sup>16</sup>But I say, walk by the Spirit, and ye shall not fulfil the lust of the flesh. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gal.5.17" data-parsed="Gal_5_17_0_0" data-passage="Gal 5.17" id="Gal.5.17"/><sup>17</sup>For the flesh lusteth against the Spirit, and the Spirit against the flesh; for these are contrary the one to the other; that ye may not do the things that ye would. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gal.5.18" data-parsed="Gal_5_18_0_0" data-passage="Gal 5.18" id="Gal.5.18"/><sup>18</sup>But if ye are led by the Spirit, ye are not under the law. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gal.5.19" data-parsed="Gal_5_19_0_0" data-passage="Gal 5.19" id="Gal.5.19"/><sup>19</sup>Now the works of the flesh are manifest, which are <i>these</i>: fornication, uncleanness,
lasciviousness, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gal.5.20" data-parsed="Gal_5_20_0_0" data-passage="Gal 5.20" id="Gal.5.20"/><sup>20</sup>idolatry, sorcery, enmities, strife, jealousies,
wraths, factions, divisions, parties, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gal.5.21" data-parsed="Gal_5_21_0_0" data-passage="Gal 5.21" id="Gal.5.21"/><sup>21</sup>envyings, drunkenness,
revellings, and such like; of which I forewarn you, even as I did forewarn you, that they who practise such things shall not inherit the kingdom of God.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Gal.5.22" data-parsed="Gal_5_22_0_0" data-passage="Gal 5.22" id="Gal.5.22"/><sup>22</sup>But the fruit of the Spirit is love, joy, peace, longsuffering,
kindness, goodness, faithfulness, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gal.5.23" data-parsed="Gal_5_23_0_0" data-passage="Gal 5.23" id="Gal.5.23"/><sup>23</sup>meekness, self-control; against such there is no law. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gal.5.24" data-parsed="Gal_5_24_0_0" data-passage="Gal 5.24" id="Gal.5.24"/><sup>24</sup>And they that are of Christ Jesus have crucified the flesh with the passions and the lusts thereof. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gal.5.25" data-parsed="Gal_5_25_0_0" data-passage="Gal 5.25" id="Gal.5.25"/><sup>25</sup>If we live by the Spirit, by the Spirit let us also walk. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gal.5.26" data-parsed="Gal_5_26_0_0" data-passage="Gal 5.26" id="Gal.5.26"/><sup>26</sup>Let us not become vainglorious,
provoking one another, envying one another.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>