<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Galatians 6</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Galatians 6</span></div><div data-next="Eph" data-prev="Gal.5" data-progress="94.28%" data-shorttitle="" id="Gal.6" title="Galatians 6">
<h2 id="Gal.6-p0.1">6</h2>
<p id="Gal.6-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gal.6.1" data-parsed="Gal_6_1_0_0" data-passage="Gal 6.1" id="Gal.6.1"/><sup>1</sup>Brethren, even if a man be overtaken in any trespass, ye who are spiritual, restore such a one in a spirit of gentleness; looking to thyself,
lest thou also be tempted. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gal.6.2" data-parsed="Gal_6_2_0_0" data-passage="Gal 6.2" id="Gal.6.2"/><sup>2</sup>Bear ye one another's burdens, and so fulfil the law of Christ. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gal.6.3" data-parsed="Gal_6_3_0_0" data-passage="Gal 6.3" id="Gal.6.3"/><sup>3</sup>For if a man thinketh himself to be something when he is nothing, he deceiveth himself. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gal.6.4" data-parsed="Gal_6_4_0_0" data-passage="Gal 6.4" id="Gal.6.4"/><sup>4</sup>But let each man prove his own work,
and then shall he have his glorying in regard of himself alone, and not of his neighbor. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gal.6.5" data-parsed="Gal_6_5_0_0" data-passage="Gal 6.5" id="Gal.6.5"/><sup>5</sup>For each man shall bear his own burden. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gal.6.6" data-parsed="Gal_6_6_0_0" data-passage="Gal 6.6" id="Gal.6.6"/><sup>6</sup>But let him that is taught in the word communicate unto him that teacheth in all good things. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gal.6.7" data-parsed="Gal_6_7_0_0" data-passage="Gal 6.7" id="Gal.6.7"/><sup>7</sup>Be not deceived; God is not mocked: for whatsoever a man soweth,
that shall he also reap. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gal.6.8" data-parsed="Gal_6_8_0_0" data-passage="Gal 6.8" id="Gal.6.8"/><sup>8</sup>For he that soweth unto his own flesh shall of the flesh reap corruption; but he that soweth unto the Spirit shall of the Spirit reap eternal life. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gal.6.9" data-parsed="Gal_6_9_0_0" data-passage="Gal 6.9" id="Gal.6.9"/><sup>9</sup>And let us not be weary in well-doing: for in due season we shall reap, if we faint not. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gal.6.10" data-parsed="Gal_6_10_0_0" data-passage="Gal 6.10" id="Gal.6.10"/><sup>10</sup>So then, as we have opportunity, let us work that which is good toward all men, and especially toward them that are of the household of the faith. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gal.6.11" data-parsed="Gal_6_11_0_0" data-passage="Gal 6.11" id="Gal.6.11"/><sup>11</sup>See with how large letters I write unto you with mine own hand. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gal.6.12" data-parsed="Gal_6_12_0_0" data-passage="Gal 6.12" id="Gal.6.12"/><sup>12</sup>As many as desire to make a fair show in the flesh, they compel you to be circumcised; only that they may not be persecuted for the cross of Christ. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gal.6.13" data-parsed="Gal_6_13_0_0" data-passage="Gal 6.13" id="Gal.6.13"/><sup>13</sup>For not even they who receive circumcision do themselves keep the law; but they desire to have you circumcised, that they may glory in your flesh. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gal.6.14" data-parsed="Gal_6_14_0_0" data-passage="Gal 6.14" id="Gal.6.14"/><sup>14</sup>But far be it from me to glory, save in the cross of our Lord Jesus Christ, through which the world hath been crucified unto me, and I unto the world. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gal.6.15" data-parsed="Gal_6_15_0_0" data-passage="Gal 6.15" id="Gal.6.15"/><sup>15</sup>For neither is circumcision anything, nor uncircumcision, but a new creature. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gal.6.16" data-parsed="Gal_6_16_0_0" data-passage="Gal 6.16" id="Gal.6.16"/><sup>16</sup>And as many as shall walk by this rule, peace <i>be</i> upon them, and mercy, and upon the Israel of God. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gal.6.17" data-parsed="Gal_6_17_0_0" data-passage="Gal 6.17" id="Gal.6.17"/><sup>17</sup>Henceforth, let no man trouble me; for I bear branded on my body the marks of Jesus. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gal.6.18" data-parsed="Gal_6_18_0_0" data-passage="Gal 6.18" id="Gal.6.18"/><sup>18</sup>The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with your spirit, brethren. Amen.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>