<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Genesis 12</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Genesis 12</span></div><div data-next="Gen.13" data-prev="Gen.11" data-progress="1.90%" data-shorttitle="" id="Gen.12" title="Genesis 12">
<h2 id="Gen.12-p0.1">12</h2>
<p id="Gen.12-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.12.1" data-parsed="Gen_12_1_0_0" data-passage="Gen 12.1" id="Gen.12.1"/><sup>1</sup>Now Jehovah said unto Abram, Get thee out of thy country, and from thy kindred, and from thy father's house, unto the land that I will show thee: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.12.2" data-parsed="Gen_12_2_0_0" data-passage="Gen 12.2" id="Gen.12.2"/><sup>2</sup>and I will make of thee a great nation, and I will bless thee, and make they name great; and be thou a blessing; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.12.3" data-parsed="Gen_12_3_0_0" data-passage="Gen 12.3" id="Gen.12.3"/><sup>3</sup>and I will bless them that bless thee, and him that curseth thee will I curse: and in thee shall all the families of the earth be blessed. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.12.4" data-parsed="Gen_12_4_0_0" data-passage="Gen 12.4" id="Gen.12.4"/><sup>4</sup>So Abram went, as Jehovah had spoken unto him; and Lot went with him: and Abram was seventy and five years old when he departed out of Haran. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.12.5" data-parsed="Gen_12_5_0_0" data-passage="Gen 12.5" id="Gen.12.5"/><sup>5</sup>And Abram took Sarai his wife, and Lot his brother's son, and all their substance that they had gathered, and the souls that they had gotten in Haran; and they went forth to go into the land of Canaan; and into the land of Canaan they came. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.12.6" data-parsed="Gen_12_6_0_0" data-passage="Gen 12.6" id="Gen.12.6"/><sup>6</sup>And Abram passed through the land unto the place of Shechem, unto the oak of Moreh. And the Canaanite was then in the land. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.12.7" data-parsed="Gen_12_7_0_0" data-passage="Gen 12.7" id="Gen.12.7"/><sup>7</sup>And Jehovah appeared unto Abram, and said, Unto thy seed will I give this land: and there builded he an altar unto Jehovah, who appeared unto him. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.12.8" data-parsed="Gen_12_8_0_0" data-passage="Gen 12.8" id="Gen.12.8"/><sup>8</sup>And he removed from thence unto the mountain on the east of Beth-el, and pitched his tent, having Beth-el on the west, and Ai on the east: and there he builded an altar unto Jehovah, and called upon the name of Jehovah. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.12.9" data-parsed="Gen_12_9_0_0" data-passage="Gen 12.9" id="Gen.12.9"/><sup>9</sup>And Abram journeyed, going on still toward the South.</p>
<p id="Gen.12-p2">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.12.10" data-parsed="Gen_12_10_0_0" data-passage="Gen 12.10" id="Gen.12.10"/><sup>10</sup>And there was a famine in the land: and Abram went down into Egypt to sojourn there; for the famine was sore in the land. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.12.11" data-parsed="Gen_12_11_0_0" data-passage="Gen 12.11" id="Gen.12.11"/><sup>11</sup>And it came to pass, when he was come near to enter into Egypt, that he said unto Sarai his wife, Behold now, I know that thou art a fair woman to look upon: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.12.12" data-parsed="Gen_12_12_0_0" data-passage="Gen 12.12" id="Gen.12.12"/><sup>12</sup>and it will come to pass, when the Egyptians shall see thee, that they will say,
This is his wife: and they will kill me, but they will save thee alive.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.12.13" data-parsed="Gen_12_13_0_0" data-passage="Gen 12.13" id="Gen.12.13"/><sup>13</sup>Say, I pray thee, thou art my sister; that it may be well with me for thy sake, and that my soul may live because of thee. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.12.14" data-parsed="Gen_12_14_0_0" data-passage="Gen 12.14" id="Gen.12.14"/><sup>14</sup>And it came to pass, that, when Abram was come into Egypt, the Egyptians beheld the woman that she was very fair. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.12.15" data-parsed="Gen_12_15_0_0" data-passage="Gen 12.15" id="Gen.12.15"/><sup>15</sup>And the princes of Pharaoh saw her, and praised her to Pharaoh: and the woman was taken into Pharaoh's house. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.12.16" data-parsed="Gen_12_16_0_0" data-passage="Gen 12.16" id="Gen.12.16"/><sup>16</sup>And he dealt well with Abram for her sake: and he had sheep, and oxen, and he-asses,
and men-servants, and maid-servants, and she-asses, and camels. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.12.17" data-parsed="Gen_12_17_0_0" data-passage="Gen 12.17" id="Gen.12.17"/><sup>17</sup>And Jehovah plagued Pharaoh and his house with great plagues because of Sarai,
Abram's wife. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.12.18" data-parsed="Gen_12_18_0_0" data-passage="Gen 12.18" id="Gen.12.18"/><sup>18</sup>And Pharaoh called Abram, and said, What is this that thou hast done unto me? why didst thou not tell me that she was thy wife?

<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.12.19" data-parsed="Gen_12_19_0_0" data-passage="Gen 12.19" id="Gen.12.19"/><sup>19</sup>why saidst thou, She is my sister, so that I took her to be my wife?
now therefore behold thy wife, take her, and go thy way. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.12.20" data-parsed="Gen_12_20_0_0" data-passage="Gen 12.20" id="Gen.12.20"/><sup>20</sup>And Pharaoh gave men charge concerning him: and they brought him on the way, and his wife, and all that he had.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>