<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Genesis 15</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Genesis 15</span></div><div data-next="Gen.16" data-prev="Gen.14" data-progress="2.09%" data-shorttitle="" id="Gen.15" title="Genesis 15">
<h2 id="Gen.15-p0.1">15</h2>
<p id="Gen.15-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.15.1" data-parsed="Gen_15_1_0_0" data-passage="Gen 15.1" id="Gen.15.1"/><sup>1</sup>After these things the word of Jehovah came unto Abram in a vision, saying, Fear not, Abram: I am thy shield, <i>and</i> thy exceeding great reward. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.15.2" data-parsed="Gen_15_2_0_0" data-passage="Gen 15.2" id="Gen.15.2"/><sup>2</sup>And Abram said, O Lord Jehovah, what wilt thou give me,
seeing I go childless, and he that shall be possessor of my house is Eliezer of Damascus? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.15.3" data-parsed="Gen_15_3_0_0" data-passage="Gen 15.3" id="Gen.15.3"/><sup>3</sup>And Abram said, Behold, to me thou hast given no seed: and,
lo, one born in my house is mine heir. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.15.4" data-parsed="Gen_15_4_0_0" data-passage="Gen 15.4" id="Gen.15.4"/><sup>4</sup>And, behold, the word of Jehovah came unto him, saying, This man shall not be thine heir; But he that shall come forth out of thine own bowels shall be thine heir. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.15.5" data-parsed="Gen_15_5_0_0" data-passage="Gen 15.5" id="Gen.15.5"/><sup>5</sup>And he brought him forth abroad, and said, Look now toward heaven, and number the stars, if thou be able to number them: and he said unto him, So shall thy seed be.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.15.6" data-parsed="Gen_15_6_0_0" data-passage="Gen 15.6" id="Gen.15.6"/><sup>6</sup>And he believed in Jehovah; and he reckoned it to him for righteousness.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.15.7" data-parsed="Gen_15_7_0_0" data-passage="Gen 15.7" id="Gen.15.7"/><sup>7</sup>And he said unto him, I am Jehovah that brought thee out of Ur of the Chaldees, to give thee this land to inherit it. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.15.8" data-parsed="Gen_15_8_0_0" data-passage="Gen 15.8" id="Gen.15.8"/><sup>8</sup>And he said, O Lord Jehovah, whereby shall I know that I shall inherit it? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.15.9" data-parsed="Gen_15_9_0_0" data-passage="Gen 15.9" id="Gen.15.9"/><sup>9</sup>And he said unto him, Take me a heifer three years old, and a she-goat three years old, and a ram three years old, and a turtle-dove, and a young pigeon. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.15.10" data-parsed="Gen_15_10_0_0" data-passage="Gen 15.10" id="Gen.15.10"/><sup>10</sup>And he took him all these, and divided them in the midst, and laid each half over against the other: but the birds divided he not. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.15.11" data-parsed="Gen_15_11_0_0" data-passage="Gen 15.11" id="Gen.15.11"/><sup>11</sup>And the birds of prey came down upon the carcasses, and Abram drove them away.</p>
<p id="Gen.15-p2">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.15.12" data-parsed="Gen_15_12_0_0" data-passage="Gen 15.12" id="Gen.15.12"/><sup>12</sup>And when the sun was going down, a deep sleep fell upon Abram; and, lo,
a horror of great darkness fell upon him. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.15.13" data-parsed="Gen_15_13_0_0" data-passage="Gen 15.13" id="Gen.15.13"/><sup>13</sup>And he said unto Abram, Know of a surety that thy seed shall be sojourners in a land that is not theirs,
and shall serve them; and they shall afflict them four hundred years;

<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.15.14" data-parsed="Gen_15_14_0_0" data-passage="Gen 15.14" id="Gen.15.14"/><sup>14</sup>and also that nation, whom they shall serve, will I judge: and afterward shall they come out with great substance. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.15.15" data-parsed="Gen_15_15_0_0" data-passage="Gen 15.15" id="Gen.15.15"/><sup>15</sup>But thou shalt go to thy fathers in peace; thou shalt be buried in a good old age. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.15.16" data-parsed="Gen_15_16_0_0" data-passage="Gen 15.16" id="Gen.15.16"/><sup>16</sup>And in the fourth generation they shall come hither again; for the iniquity of the Amorite is not yet full. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.15.17" data-parsed="Gen_15_17_0_0" data-passage="Gen 15.17" id="Gen.15.17"/><sup>17</sup>And it came to pass, that, when the sun went down, and it was dark, behold, a smoking furnace, and a flaming torch that passed between these pieces. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.15.18" data-parsed="Gen_15_18_0_0" data-passage="Gen 15.18" id="Gen.15.18"/><sup>18</sup>In that day Jehovah made a covenant with Abram, saying, Unto thy seed have I given this land, from the river of Egypt unto the great river, the river Euphrates: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.15.19" data-parsed="Gen_15_19_0_0" data-passage="Gen 15.19" id="Gen.15.19"/><sup>19</sup>the Kenite, and the Kenizzite, and the Kadmonite, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.15.20" data-parsed="Gen_15_20_0_0" data-passage="Gen 15.20" id="Gen.15.20"/><sup>20</sup>and the Hittite, and the Perizzite, and the Rephaim, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.15.21" data-parsed="Gen_15_21_0_0" data-passage="Gen 15.21" id="Gen.15.21"/><sup>21</sup>and the Amorite, and the Canaanite, and the Girgashite,
and the Jebusite.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>