<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Genesis 11</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Genesis 11</span></div><div data-next="Gen.12" data-prev="Gen.10" data-progress="1.82%" data-shorttitle="" id="Gen.11" title="Genesis 11">
<h2 id="Gen.11-p0.1">11</h2>
<p id="Gen.11-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.11.1" data-parsed="Gen_11_1_0_0" data-passage="Gen 11.1" id="Gen.11.1"/><sup>1</sup>And the whole earth was of one language and of one speech.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.11.2" data-parsed="Gen_11_2_0_0" data-passage="Gen 11.2" id="Gen.11.2"/><sup>2</sup>And it came to pass, as they journeyed east, that they found a plain in the land of Shinar; and they dwelt there. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.11.3" data-parsed="Gen_11_3_0_0" data-passage="Gen 11.3" id="Gen.11.3"/><sup>3</sup>And they said one to another,
Come, let us make brick, and burn them thoroughly. And they had brick for stone, and slime had they for mortar. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.11.4" data-parsed="Gen_11_4_0_0" data-passage="Gen 11.4" id="Gen.11.4"/><sup>4</sup>And they said, Come, let us build us a city, and a tower, whose top <i>may reach</i> unto heaven, and let us make us a name; lest we be scattered abroad upon the face of the whole earth.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.11.5" data-parsed="Gen_11_5_0_0" data-passage="Gen 11.5" id="Gen.11.5"/><sup>5</sup>And Jehovah came down to see the city and the tower, which the children of men builded. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.11.6" data-parsed="Gen_11_6_0_0" data-passage="Gen 11.6" id="Gen.11.6"/><sup>6</sup>And Jehovah said, Behold, they are one people, and they have all one language; and this is what they begin to do: and now nothing will be withholden from them, which they purpose to do. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.11.7" data-parsed="Gen_11_7_0_0" data-passage="Gen 11.7" id="Gen.11.7"/><sup>7</sup>Come, let us go down, and there confound their language, that they may not understand one another's speech. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.11.8" data-parsed="Gen_11_8_0_0" data-passage="Gen 11.8" id="Gen.11.8"/><sup>8</sup>So Jehovah scattered them abroad from thence upon the face of all the earth: and they left off building the city. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.11.9" data-parsed="Gen_11_9_0_0" data-passage="Gen 11.9" id="Gen.11.9"/><sup>9</sup>Therefore was the name of it called Babel; because Jehovah did there confound the language of all the earth: and from thence did Jehovah scatter them abroad upon the face of all the earth.</p>
<p id="Gen.11-p2">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.11.10" data-parsed="Gen_11_10_0_0" data-passage="Gen 11.10" id="Gen.11.10"/><sup>10</sup>These are the generations of Shem. Shem was a hundred years old, and begat Arpachshad two years after the flood. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.11.11" data-parsed="Gen_11_11_0_0" data-passage="Gen 11.11" id="Gen.11.11"/><sup>11</sup>and Shem lived after he begat Arpachshad five hundred years, and begat sons and daughters.</p>
<p id="Gen.11-p3">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.11.12" data-parsed="Gen_11_12_0_0" data-passage="Gen 11.12" id="Gen.11.12"/><sup>12</sup>And Arpachshad lived five and thirty years, and begat Shelah. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.11.13" data-parsed="Gen_11_13_0_0" data-passage="Gen 11.13" id="Gen.11.13"/><sup>13</sup>and Arpachshad lived after he begat Shelah four hundred and three years, and begat sons and daughters.</p>
<p id="Gen.11-p4">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.11.14" data-parsed="Gen_11_14_0_0" data-passage="Gen 11.14" id="Gen.11.14"/><sup>14</sup>And Shelah lived thirty years, and begat Eber: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.11.15" data-parsed="Gen_11_15_0_0" data-passage="Gen 11.15" id="Gen.11.15"/><sup>15</sup>and Shelah lived after he begat Eber four hundred and three years, and begat sons and daughters.</p>
<p id="Gen.11-p5">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.11.16" data-parsed="Gen_11_16_0_0" data-passage="Gen 11.16" id="Gen.11.16"/><sup>16</sup>And Eber lived four and thirty years, and begat Peleg: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.11.17" data-parsed="Gen_11_17_0_0" data-passage="Gen 11.17" id="Gen.11.17"/><sup>17</sup>and Eber lived after he begat Peleg four hundred and thirty years, and begat sons and daughters.</p>
<p id="Gen.11-p6">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.11.18" data-parsed="Gen_11_18_0_0" data-passage="Gen 11.18" id="Gen.11.18"/><sup>18</sup>And Peleg lived thirty years, and begat Reu: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.11.19" data-parsed="Gen_11_19_0_0" data-passage="Gen 11.19" id="Gen.11.19"/><sup>19</sup>and Peleg lived after he begat Reu two hundred and nine years, and begat sons and daughters.</p>
<p id="Gen.11-p7">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.11.20" data-parsed="Gen_11_20_0_0" data-passage="Gen 11.20" id="Gen.11.20"/><sup>20</sup>And Reu lived two and thirty years, and begat Serug: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.11.21" data-parsed="Gen_11_21_0_0" data-passage="Gen 11.21" id="Gen.11.21"/><sup>21</sup>and Reu lived after he begat Serug two hundred and seven years, and begat sons and daughters.</p>
<p id="Gen.11-p8">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.11.22" data-parsed="Gen_11_22_0_0" data-passage="Gen 11.22" id="Gen.11.22"/><sup>22</sup>And Serug lived thirty years, and begat Nahor: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.11.23" data-parsed="Gen_11_23_0_0" data-passage="Gen 11.23" id="Gen.11.23"/><sup>23</sup>and Serug lived after he begat Nahor two hundred years, and begat sons and daughters.</p>
<p id="Gen.11-p9">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.11.24" data-parsed="Gen_11_24_0_0" data-passage="Gen 11.24" id="Gen.11.24"/><sup>24</sup>And Nahor lived nine and twenty years, and begat Terah: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.11.25" data-parsed="Gen_11_25_0_0" data-passage="Gen 11.25" id="Gen.11.25"/><sup>25</sup>and Nahor lived after he begat Terah a hundred and nineteen years, and begat sons and daughters.</p>
<p id="Gen.11-p10">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.11.26" data-parsed="Gen_11_26_0_0" data-passage="Gen 11.26" id="Gen.11.26"/><sup>26</sup>And Terah lived seventy years, and begat Abram, Nahor, and Haran.</p>
<p id="Gen.11-p11">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.11.27" data-parsed="Gen_11_27_0_0" data-passage="Gen 11.27" id="Gen.11.27"/><sup>27</sup>Now these are the generations of Terah. Terah begat Abram, Nahor, and Haran. And Haran begat Lot. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.11.28" data-parsed="Gen_11_28_0_0" data-passage="Gen 11.28" id="Gen.11.28"/><sup>28</sup>And Haran died before his father Terah in the land of his nativity, in Ur of the Chaldees. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.11.29" data-parsed="Gen_11_29_0_0" data-passage="Gen 11.29" id="Gen.11.29"/><sup>29</sup>And Abram and Nahor took them wives: The name of Abram's wife was Sarai; and the name of Nahor's wife, Milcah, the daughter of Haran, the father of Milcah, and the father of Iscah. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.11.30" data-parsed="Gen_11_30_0_0" data-passage="Gen 11.30" id="Gen.11.30"/><sup>30</sup>And Sarai was barren; She had no child. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.11.31" data-parsed="Gen_11_31_0_0" data-passage="Gen 11.31" id="Gen.11.31"/><sup>31</sup>And Terah took Abram his son, and Lot the son of Haran, his son's son, and Sarai his daughter-in-law, his son Abram's wife; and they went forth with them from Ur of the Chaldees, to go into the land of Canaan; and they came unto Haran, and dwelt there. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.11.32" data-parsed="Gen_11_32_0_0" data-passage="Gen 11.32" id="Gen.11.32"/><sup>32</sup>And the days of Terah were two hundred and five years: and Terah died in Haran.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>