<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Genesis 14</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Genesis 14</span></div><div data-next="Gen.15" data-prev="Gen.13" data-progress="2.02%" data-shorttitle="" id="Gen.14" title="Genesis 14">
<h2 id="Gen.14-p0.1">14</h2>
<p id="Gen.14-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.14.1" data-parsed="Gen_14_1_0_0" data-passage="Gen 14.1" id="Gen.14.1"/><sup>1</sup>And it came to pass in the days of Amraphel king of Shinar, Arioch king of Ellasar, Chedorlaomer king of Elam, and Tidal king of Goiim,

<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.14.2" data-parsed="Gen_14_2_0_0" data-passage="Gen 14.2" id="Gen.14.2"/><sup>2</sup>that they made war with Bera king of Sodom, and with Birsha king of Gomorrah, Shinab king of Admah, and Shemeber king of Zeboiim, and the king of Bela (the same is Zoar). 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.14.3" data-parsed="Gen_14_3_0_0" data-passage="Gen 14.3" id="Gen.14.3"/><sup>3</sup>All these joined together in the vale of Siddim
(the same is the Salt Sea). 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.14.4" data-parsed="Gen_14_4_0_0" data-passage="Gen 14.4" id="Gen.14.4"/><sup>4</sup>Twelve years they served Chedorlaomer, and in the thirteenth year they rebelled. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.14.5" data-parsed="Gen_14_5_0_0" data-passage="Gen 14.5" id="Gen.14.5"/><sup>5</sup>And in the fourteenth year came Chedorlaomer, and the kings that were with him, and smote the Rephaim in Ashteroth-karnaim, and the Zuzim in Ham, and the Emim in Shaveh-kiriathaim,

<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.14.6" data-parsed="Gen_14_6_0_0" data-passage="Gen 14.6" id="Gen.14.6"/><sup>6</sup>and the Horites in their mount Seir, unto Elparan, which is by the wilderness. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.14.7" data-parsed="Gen_14_7_0_0" data-passage="Gen 14.7" id="Gen.14.7"/><sup>7</sup>And they returned, and came to En-mishpat (the same is Kadesh), and smote all the country of the Amalekites, and also the Amorites,
that dwelt in Hazazon-tamar. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.14.8" data-parsed="Gen_14_8_0_0" data-passage="Gen 14.8" id="Gen.14.8"/><sup>8</sup>And there went out the king of Sodom, and the king of Gomorrah, and the king of Admah, and the king of Zeboiim, and the king of Bela (the same is Zoar); and they set the battle in array against them in the vale of Siddim; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.14.9" data-parsed="Gen_14_9_0_0" data-passage="Gen 14.9" id="Gen.14.9"/><sup>9</sup>against Chedorlaomer king of Elam, and Tidal king of Goiim, and Amraphel king of Shinar, and Arioch king of Ellasar; four kings against the five. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.14.10" data-parsed="Gen_14_10_0_0" data-passage="Gen 14.10" id="Gen.14.10"/><sup>10</sup>Now the vale of Siddim was full of slime pits;
and the kings of Sodom and Gomorrah fled, and they fell there, and they that remained fled to the mountain. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.14.11" data-parsed="Gen_14_11_0_0" data-passage="Gen 14.11" id="Gen.14.11"/><sup>11</sup>And they took all the goods of Sodom and Gomorrah, and all their victuals, and went their way. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.14.12" data-parsed="Gen_14_12_0_0" data-passage="Gen 14.12" id="Gen.14.12"/><sup>12</sup>And they took Lot, Abram's brother's son, who dwelt in Sodom, and his goods, and departed.</p>
<p id="Gen.14-p2">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.14.13" data-parsed="Gen_14_13_0_0" data-passage="Gen 14.13" id="Gen.14.13"/><sup>13</sup>And there came one that had escaped, and told Abram the Hebrew: now he dwelt by the oaks of Mamre, the Amorite, brother of Eshcol, and brother of Aner; and these were confederate with Abram. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.14.14" data-parsed="Gen_14_14_0_0" data-passage="Gen 14.14" id="Gen.14.14"/><sup>14</sup>And when Abram heard that his brother was taken captive, he led forth his trained men, born in his house, three hundred and eighteen, and pursued as far as Dan. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.14.15" data-parsed="Gen_14_15_0_0" data-passage="Gen 14.15" id="Gen.14.15"/><sup>15</sup>And he divided himself against them by night, he and his servants, and smote them,
and pursued them unto Hobah, which is on the left hand of Damascus. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.14.16" data-parsed="Gen_14_16_0_0" data-passage="Gen 14.16" id="Gen.14.16"/><sup>16</sup>And he brought back all the goods, and also brought back his brother Lot, and his goods, and the women also, and the people.</p>
<p id="Gen.14-p3">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.14.17" data-parsed="Gen_14_17_0_0" data-passage="Gen 14.17" id="Gen.14.17"/><sup>17</sup>And the king of Sodom went out to meet him, after his return from the slaughter of Chedorlaomer and the kings that were with him, at the vale of Shaveh (the same is the King's Vale). 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.14.18" data-parsed="Gen_14_18_0_0" data-passage="Gen 14.18" id="Gen.14.18"/><sup>18</sup>And Melchizedek king of Salem brought forth bread and wine: and he was priest of God Most High. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.14.19" data-parsed="Gen_14_19_0_0" data-passage="Gen 14.19" id="Gen.14.19"/><sup>19</sup>And he blessed him, and said, Blessed be Abram of God Most High, possessor of heaven and earth: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.14.20" data-parsed="Gen_14_20_0_0" data-passage="Gen 14.20" id="Gen.14.20"/><sup>20</sup>and blessed be God Most High, who hath delivered thine enemies into thy hand. And he gave him a tenth of all. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.14.21" data-parsed="Gen_14_21_0_0" data-passage="Gen 14.21" id="Gen.14.21"/><sup>21</sup>And the king of Sodom said unto Abram, Give me the persons, and take the goods to thyself. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.14.22" data-parsed="Gen_14_22_0_0" data-passage="Gen 14.22" id="Gen.14.22"/><sup>22</sup>And Abram said to the king of Sodom, I have lifted up my hand unto Jehovah, God Most High, possessor of heaven and earth, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.14.23" data-parsed="Gen_14_23_0_0" data-passage="Gen 14.23" id="Gen.14.23"/><sup>23</sup>that I will not take a thread nor a shoe-latchet nor aught that is thine, lest thou shouldest say, I have made Abram rich: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.14.24" data-parsed="Gen_14_24_0_0" data-passage="Gen 14.24" id="Gen.14.24"/><sup>24</sup>save only that which the young men have eaten, and the portion of the men that went with me, Aner, Eshcol,
and Mamre. Let them take their portion.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>