<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Genesis 18</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Genesis 18</span></div><div data-next="Gen.19" data-prev="Gen.17" data-progress="2.29%" data-shorttitle="" id="Gen.18" title="Genesis 18">
<h2 id="Gen.18-p0.1">18</h2>
<p id="Gen.18-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.18.1" data-parsed="Gen_18_1_0_0" data-passage="Gen 18.1" id="Gen.18.1"/><sup>1</sup>And Jehovah appeared unto him by the oaks of Mamre, as he sat in the tent door in the heat of the day; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.18.2" data-parsed="Gen_18_2_0_0" data-passage="Gen 18.2" id="Gen.18.2"/><sup>2</sup>and he lifted up his eyes and looked, and, lo, three men stood over against him: and when he saw them, he ran to meet them from the tent door, and bowed himself to the earth, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.18.3" data-parsed="Gen_18_3_0_0" data-passage="Gen 18.3" id="Gen.18.3"/><sup>3</sup>and said, My lord, if now I have found favor in thy sight, pass not away, I pray thee, from thy servant: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.18.4" data-parsed="Gen_18_4_0_0" data-passage="Gen 18.4" id="Gen.18.4"/><sup>4</sup>let now a little water be fetched, and wash your feet, and rest yourselves under the tree: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.18.5" data-parsed="Gen_18_5_0_0" data-passage="Gen 18.5" id="Gen.18.5"/><sup>5</sup>and I will fetch a morsel of bread, and strengthen ye your heart; after that ye shall pass on: forasmuch as ye are come to your servant. And they said, So do, as thou hast said.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.18.6" data-parsed="Gen_18_6_0_0" data-passage="Gen 18.6" id="Gen.18.6"/><sup>6</sup>And Abraham hastened into the tent unto Sarah, and said, Make ready quickly three measures of fine meal, knead it, and make cakes. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.18.7" data-parsed="Gen_18_7_0_0" data-passage="Gen 18.7" id="Gen.18.7"/><sup>7</sup>And Abraham ran unto the herd, and fetched a calf tender and good, and gave it unto the servant; and he hasted to dress it. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.18.8" data-parsed="Gen_18_8_0_0" data-passage="Gen 18.8" id="Gen.18.8"/><sup>8</sup>And he took butter, and milk, and the calf which he had dressed, and set it before them; and he stood by them under the tree, and they did eat.</p>
<p id="Gen.18-p2">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.18.9" data-parsed="Gen_18_9_0_0" data-passage="Gen 18.9" id="Gen.18.9"/><sup>9</sup>And they said unto him, Where is Sarah thy wife? And he said, Behold, in the tent. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.18.10" data-parsed="Gen_18_10_0_0" data-passage="Gen 18.10" id="Gen.18.10"/><sup>10</sup>And he said, I will certainly return unto thee when the season cometh round; and, lo, Sarah thy wife shall have a son. And Sarah heard in the tent door, which was behind him. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.18.11" data-parsed="Gen_18_11_0_0" data-passage="Gen 18.11" id="Gen.18.11"/><sup>11</sup>Now Abraham and Sarah were old, <i>and</i> well stricken in age; it had ceased to be with Sarah after the manner of women. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.18.12" data-parsed="Gen_18_12_0_0" data-passage="Gen 18.12" id="Gen.18.12"/><sup>12</sup>And Sarah laughed within herself, saying,
After I am waxed old shall I have pleasure, my lord being old also? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.18.13" data-parsed="Gen_18_13_0_0" data-passage="Gen 18.13" id="Gen.18.13"/><sup>13</sup>And Jehovah said unto Abraham, Wherefore did Sarah laugh, saying, Shall I of a surety bear a child, who am old? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.18.14" data-parsed="Gen_18_14_0_0" data-passage="Gen 18.14" id="Gen.18.14"/><sup>14</sup>Is anything too hard for Jehovah? At the set time I will return unto thee, when the season cometh round, and Sarah shall have a son. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.18.15" data-parsed="Gen_18_15_0_0" data-passage="Gen 18.15" id="Gen.18.15"/><sup>15</sup>Then Sarah denied, saying, I laughed not; for she was afraid. And he said, Nay; but thou didst laugh.</p>
<p id="Gen.18-p3">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.18.16" data-parsed="Gen_18_16_0_0" data-passage="Gen 18.16" id="Gen.18.16"/><sup>16</sup>And the men rose up from thence, and looked toward Sodom: and Abraham went with them to bring them on the way. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.18.17" data-parsed="Gen_18_17_0_0" data-passage="Gen 18.17" id="Gen.18.17"/><sup>17</sup>And Jehovah said, Shall I hide from Abraham that which I do; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.18.18" data-parsed="Gen_18_18_0_0" data-passage="Gen 18.18" id="Gen.18.18"/><sup>18</sup>seeing that Abraham had surely become a great and mighty nation, and all the nations of the earth shall be blessed in him? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.18.19" data-parsed="Gen_18_19_0_0" data-passage="Gen 18.19" id="Gen.18.19"/><sup>19</sup>For I have known him, to the end that he may command his children and his household after him, that they may keep the way of Jehovah, to do righteousness and justice; to the end that Jehovah may bring upon Abraham that which he hath spoken of him. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.18.20" data-parsed="Gen_18_20_0_0" data-passage="Gen 18.20" id="Gen.18.20"/><sup>20</sup>And Jehovah said, Because the cry of Sodom and Gomorrah is great, and because their sin is very grievous; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.18.21" data-parsed="Gen_18_21_0_0" data-passage="Gen 18.21" id="Gen.18.21"/><sup>21</sup>I will go down now, and see whether they have done altogether according to the cry of it, which is come unto me; and if not, I will know.</p>
<p id="Gen.18-p4">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.18.22" data-parsed="Gen_18_22_0_0" data-passage="Gen 18.22" id="Gen.18.22"/><sup>22</sup>And the men turned from thence, and went toward Sodom: but Abraham stood yet before Jehovah. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.18.23" data-parsed="Gen_18_23_0_0" data-passage="Gen 18.23" id="Gen.18.23"/><sup>23</sup>And Abraham drew near, and said, Wilt thou consume the righteous with the wicked? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.18.24" data-parsed="Gen_18_24_0_0" data-passage="Gen 18.24" id="Gen.18.24"/><sup>24</sup>Peradventure there are fifty righteous within the city: wilt thou consume and not spare the place for the fifty righteous that are therein? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.18.25" data-parsed="Gen_18_25_0_0" data-passage="Gen 18.25" id="Gen.18.25"/><sup>25</sup>That be far from thee to do after this manner, to slay the righteous with the wicked, that so the righteous should be as the wicked; that be far from thee: shall not the Judge of all the earth do right? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.18.26" data-parsed="Gen_18_26_0_0" data-passage="Gen 18.26" id="Gen.18.26"/><sup>26</sup>And Jehovah said, If I find in Sodom fifty righteous within the city, then I will spare all the place for their sake.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.18.27" data-parsed="Gen_18_27_0_0" data-passage="Gen 18.27" id="Gen.18.27"/><sup>27</sup>And Abraham answered and said, Behold now, I have taken upon me to speak unto the Lord, who am but dust and ashes: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.18.28" data-parsed="Gen_18_28_0_0" data-passage="Gen 18.28" id="Gen.18.28"/><sup>28</sup>peradventure there shall lack five of the fifty righteous: wilt thou destroy all the city for lack of five? And he said, I will not destroy it, if I find there forty and five. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.18.29" data-parsed="Gen_18_29_0_0" data-passage="Gen 18.29" id="Gen.18.29"/><sup>29</sup>And he spake unto him yet again, and said, Peradventure there shall be forty found there. And he said, I will not do it for the forty's sake. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.18.30" data-parsed="Gen_18_30_0_0" data-passage="Gen 18.30" id="Gen.18.30"/><sup>30</sup>And he said, Oh let not the Lord be angry, and I will speak:
peradventure there shall thirty be found there. And he said, I will not do it, if I find thirty there. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.18.31" data-parsed="Gen_18_31_0_0" data-passage="Gen 18.31" id="Gen.18.31"/><sup>31</sup>And he said, Behold now, I have taken upon me to speak unto the Lord: peradventure there shall be twenty found there.
And he said, I will not destroy it for the twenty's sake. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.18.32" data-parsed="Gen_18_32_0_0" data-passage="Gen 18.32" id="Gen.18.32"/><sup>32</sup>And he said,
Oh let not the Lord be angry, and I will speak yet but this once:
peradventure ten shall be found there. And he said, I will not destroy it for the ten's sake. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.18.33" data-parsed="Gen_18_33_0_0" data-passage="Gen 18.33" id="Gen.18.33"/><sup>33</sup>And Jehovah went his way, as soon as he had left off communing with Abraham: and Abraham returned unto his place.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>