<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Genesis 13</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Genesis 13</span></div><div data-next="Gen.14" data-prev="Gen.12" data-progress="1.96%" data-shorttitle="" id="Gen.13" title="Genesis 13">
<h2 id="Gen.13-p0.1">13</h2>
<p id="Gen.13-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.13.1" data-parsed="Gen_13_1_0_0" data-passage="Gen 13.1" id="Gen.13.1"/><sup>1</sup>And Abram went up out of Egypt, he, and his wife, and all that he had, and Lot with him, into the South. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.13.2" data-parsed="Gen_13_2_0_0" data-passage="Gen 13.2" id="Gen.13.2"/><sup>2</sup>And Abram was very rich in cattle, in silver, and in gold. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.13.3" data-parsed="Gen_13_3_0_0" data-passage="Gen 13.3" id="Gen.13.3"/><sup>3</sup>And he went on his journeys from the South even to Beth-el, unto the place where his tent had been at the beginning, between Beth-el and Ai, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.13.4" data-parsed="Gen_13_4_0_0" data-passage="Gen 13.4" id="Gen.13.4"/><sup>4</sup>unto the place of the altar, which he had made there at the first: and there Abram called on the name of Jehovah.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.13.5" data-parsed="Gen_13_5_0_0" data-passage="Gen 13.5" id="Gen.13.5"/><sup>5</sup>And Lot also, who went with Abram, had flocks, and herds, and tents.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.13.6" data-parsed="Gen_13_6_0_0" data-passage="Gen 13.6" id="Gen.13.6"/><sup>6</sup>And the land was not able to bear them, that they might dwell together:
for their substance was great, so that they could not dwell together.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.13.7" data-parsed="Gen_13_7_0_0" data-passage="Gen 13.7" id="Gen.13.7"/><sup>7</sup>And there was a strife between the herdsmen of Abram's cattle and the herdsmen of Lot's cattle: and the Canaanite and the Perizzite dwelt then in the land. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.13.8" data-parsed="Gen_13_8_0_0" data-passage="Gen 13.8" id="Gen.13.8"/><sup>8</sup>And Abram said unto Lot, Let there be no strife, I pray thee,
between me and thee, and between my herdsmen and thy herdsmen; for we are brethren. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.13.9" data-parsed="Gen_13_9_0_0" data-passage="Gen 13.9" id="Gen.13.9"/><sup>9</sup>Is not the whole land before thee? separate thyself, I pray thee, from me. If <i>thou wilt take</i> the left hand, then I will go to the right. Or if <i>thou take</i> the right hand, then I will go to the left.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.13.10" data-parsed="Gen_13_10_0_0" data-passage="Gen 13.10" id="Gen.13.10"/><sup>10</sup>And Lot lifted up his eyes, and beheld all the Plain of the Jordan,
that it was well watered every where, before Jehovah destroyed Sodom and Gomorrah, like the garden of Jehovah, like the land of Egypt, as thou goest unto Zoar. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.13.11" data-parsed="Gen_13_11_0_0" data-passage="Gen 13.11" id="Gen.13.11"/><sup>11</sup>So Lot chose him all the Plain of the Jordan; and Lot journeyed east: and they separated themselves the one from the other.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.13.12" data-parsed="Gen_13_12_0_0" data-passage="Gen 13.12" id="Gen.13.12"/><sup>12</sup>Abram dwelt in the land of Canaan, and Lot dwelt in the cities of the Plain, and moved his tent as far as Sodom. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.13.13" data-parsed="Gen_13_13_0_0" data-passage="Gen 13.13" id="Gen.13.13"/><sup>13</sup>Now the men of Sodom were wicked and sinners against Jehovah exceedingly.</p>
<p id="Gen.13-p2">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.13.14" data-parsed="Gen_13_14_0_0" data-passage="Gen 13.14" id="Gen.13.14"/><sup>14</sup>And Jehovah said unto Abram, after that Lot was separated from him,
Lift up now thine eyes, and look from the place where thou art, northward and southward and eastward and westward: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.13.15" data-parsed="Gen_13_15_0_0" data-passage="Gen 13.15" id="Gen.13.15"/><sup>15</sup>for all the land which thou seest,
to thee will I give it, and to thy seed for ever. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.13.16" data-parsed="Gen_13_16_0_0" data-passage="Gen 13.16" id="Gen.13.16"/><sup>16</sup>And I will make thy seed as the dust of the earth: So that if a man can number the dust of the earth, then may thy seed also be numbered. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.13.17" data-parsed="Gen_13_17_0_0" data-passage="Gen 13.17" id="Gen.13.17"/><sup>17</sup>Arise, walk through the land in the length of it and in the breadth of it; for unto thee will I give it.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.13.18" data-parsed="Gen_13_18_0_0" data-passage="Gen 13.18" id="Gen.13.18"/><sup>18</sup>And Abram moved his tent, and came and dwelt by the oaks of Mamre,
which are in Hebron, and built there an altar unto Jehovah.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>