<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Genesis 2</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Genesis 2</span></div><div data-next="Gen.3" data-prev="Gen.1" data-progress="1.16%" data-shorttitle="" id="Gen.2" title="Genesis 2">
<h2 id="Gen.2-p0.1">2</h2>
<p id="Gen.2-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.2.1" data-parsed="Gen_2_1_0_0" data-passage="Gen 2.1" id="Gen.2.1"/><sup>1</sup>And the heavens and the earth were finished, and all the host of them. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.2.2" data-parsed="Gen_2_2_0_0" data-passage="Gen 2.2" id="Gen.2.2"/><sup>2</sup>And on the seventh day God finished his work which he had made;
and he rested on the seventh day from all his work which he had made.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.2.3" data-parsed="Gen_2_3_0_0" data-passage="Gen 2.3" id="Gen.2.3"/><sup>3</sup>And God blessed the seventh day, and hallowed it; because that in it he rested from all his work which God had created and made.</p>
<p id="Gen.2-p2">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.2.4" data-parsed="Gen_2_4_0_0" data-passage="Gen 2.4" id="Gen.2.4"/><sup>4</sup>These are the generations of the heavens and of the earth when they were created, in the day that Jehovah God made earth and heaven. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.2.5" data-parsed="Gen_2_5_0_0" data-passage="Gen 2.5" id="Gen.2.5"/><sup>5</sup>And no plant of the field was yet in the earth, and no herb of the field had yet sprung up; for Jehovah God had not caused it to rain upon the earth: and there was not a man to till the ground; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.2.6" data-parsed="Gen_2_6_0_0" data-passage="Gen 2.6" id="Gen.2.6"/><sup>6</sup>but there went up a mist from the earth,
and watered the whole face of the ground. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.2.7" data-parsed="Gen_2_7_0_0" data-passage="Gen 2.7" id="Gen.2.7"/><sup>7</sup>And Jehovah God formed man of the dust of the ground, and breathed into his nostrils the breath of life;
and man became a living soul. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.2.8" data-parsed="Gen_2_8_0_0" data-passage="Gen 2.8" id="Gen.2.8"/><sup>8</sup>And Jehovah God planted a garden eastward,
in Eden; and there he put the man whom he had formed. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.2.9" data-parsed="Gen_2_9_0_0" data-passage="Gen 2.9" id="Gen.2.9"/><sup>9</sup>And out of the ground made Jehovah God to grow every tree that is pleasant to the sight, and good for food; the tree of life also in the midst of the garden, and the tree of the knowledge of good and evil. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.2.10" data-parsed="Gen_2_10_0_0" data-passage="Gen 2.10" id="Gen.2.10"/><sup>10</sup>And a river went out of Eden to water the garden; and from thence it was parted, and became four heads.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.2.11" data-parsed="Gen_2_11_0_0" data-passage="Gen 2.11" id="Gen.2.11"/><sup>11</sup>The name of the first is Pishon: that is it which compasseth the whole land of Havilah, where there is gold; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.2.12" data-parsed="Gen_2_12_0_0" data-passage="Gen 2.12" id="Gen.2.12"/><sup>12</sup>and the gold of that land is good: there is bdellium and the onyx stone. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.2.13" data-parsed="Gen_2_13_0_0" data-passage="Gen 2.13" id="Gen.2.13"/><sup>13</sup>And the name of the second river is Gihon: the same is it that compasseth the whole land of Cush.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.2.14" data-parsed="Gen_2_14_0_0" data-passage="Gen 2.14" id="Gen.2.14"/><sup>14</sup>And the name of the third river is Hiddekel: that is it which goeth in front of Assyria. And the fourth river is the Euphrates. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.2.15" data-parsed="Gen_2_15_0_0" data-passage="Gen 2.15" id="Gen.2.15"/><sup>15</sup>And Jehovah God took the man, and put him into the garden of Eden to dress it and to keep it. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.2.16" data-parsed="Gen_2_16_0_0" data-passage="Gen 2.16" id="Gen.2.16"/><sup>16</sup>And Jehovah God commanded the man, saying, Of every tree of the garden thou mayest freely eat: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.2.17" data-parsed="Gen_2_17_0_0" data-passage="Gen 2.17" id="Gen.2.17"/><sup>17</sup>but of the tree of the knowledge of good and evil, thou shalt not eat of it: for in the day that thou eatest thereof thou shalt surely die.</p>
<p id="Gen.2-p3">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.2.18" data-parsed="Gen_2_18_0_0" data-passage="Gen 2.18" id="Gen.2.18"/><sup>18</sup>And Jehovah God said, It is not good that the man should be alone; I will make him a help meet for him. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.2.19" data-parsed="Gen_2_19_0_0" data-passage="Gen 2.19" id="Gen.2.19"/><sup>19</sup>And out of the ground Jehovah God formed every beast of the field, and every bird of the heavens; and brought them unto the man to see what he would call them: and whatsoever the man called every living creature, that was the name thereof. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.2.20" data-parsed="Gen_2_20_0_0" data-passage="Gen 2.20" id="Gen.2.20"/><sup>20</sup>And the man gave names to all cattle, and to the birds of the heavens, and to every beast of the field; but for man there was not found a help meet for him. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.2.21" data-parsed="Gen_2_21_0_0" data-passage="Gen 2.21" id="Gen.2.21"/><sup>21</sup>And Jehovah God caused a deep sleep to fall upon the man, and he slept; and he took one of his ribs, and closed up the flesh instead thereof: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.2.22" data-parsed="Gen_2_22_0_0" data-passage="Gen 2.22" id="Gen.2.22"/><sup>22</sup>and the rib, which Jehovah God had taken from the man, made he a woman, and brought her unto the man. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.2.23" data-parsed="Gen_2_23_0_0" data-passage="Gen 2.23" id="Gen.2.23"/><sup>23</sup>And the man said, This is now bone of my bones, and flesh of my flesh: she shall be called Woman, because she was taken out of Man. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.2.24" data-parsed="Gen_2_24_0_0" data-passage="Gen 2.24" id="Gen.2.24"/><sup>24</sup>Therefore shall a man leave his father and his mother, and shall cleave unto his wife: and they shall be one flesh. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.2.25" data-parsed="Gen_2_25_0_0" data-passage="Gen 2.25" id="Gen.2.25"/><sup>25</sup>And they were both naked, the man and his wife, and were not ashamed.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>