<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Genesis 25</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Genesis 25</span></div><div data-next="Gen.26" data-prev="Gen.24" data-progress="3.04%" data-shorttitle="" id="Gen.25" title="Genesis 25">
<h2 id="Gen.25-p0.1">25</h2>
<p id="Gen.25-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.25.1" data-parsed="Gen_25_1_0_0" data-passage="Gen 25.1" id="Gen.25.1"/><sup>1</sup>And Abraham took another wife, and her name was Keturah. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.25.2" data-parsed="Gen_25_2_0_0" data-passage="Gen 25.2" id="Gen.25.2"/><sup>2</sup>And she bare him Zimran, and Jokshan, and Medan, and Midian, and Ishbak, and Shuah. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.25.3" data-parsed="Gen_25_3_0_0" data-passage="Gen 25.3" id="Gen.25.3"/><sup>3</sup>And Jokshan begat Sheba, and Dedan. And the sons of Dedan were Asshurim, and Letushim, and Leummim. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.25.4" data-parsed="Gen_25_4_0_0" data-passage="Gen 25.4" id="Gen.25.4"/><sup>4</sup>And the sons of Midian: Ephah, and Epher, and Hanoch, and Abida, and Eldaah. All these were the children of Keturah. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.25.5" data-parsed="Gen_25_5_0_0" data-passage="Gen 25.5" id="Gen.25.5"/><sup>5</sup>And Abraham gave all that he had unto Isaac. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.25.6" data-parsed="Gen_25_6_0_0" data-passage="Gen 25.6" id="Gen.25.6"/><sup>6</sup>But unto the sons of the concubines, that Abraham had, Abraham gave gifts. And he sent them away from Isaac his son, while he yet lived, eastward, unto the east country. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.25.7" data-parsed="Gen_25_7_0_0" data-passage="Gen 25.7" id="Gen.25.7"/><sup>7</sup>And these are the days of the years of Abraham's life which he lived, a hundred threescore and fifteen years. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.25.8" data-parsed="Gen_25_8_0_0" data-passage="Gen 25.8" id="Gen.25.8"/><sup>8</sup>And Abraham gave up the ghost, and died in a good old age, an old man, and full <i>of years</i>, and was gathered to his people. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.25.9" data-parsed="Gen_25_9_0_0" data-passage="Gen 25.9" id="Gen.25.9"/><sup>9</sup>And Isaac and Ishmael his sons buried him in the cave of Machpelah, in the field of Ephron the son of Zohar the Hittite,
which is before Mamre. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.25.10" data-parsed="Gen_25_10_0_0" data-passage="Gen 25.10" id="Gen.25.10"/><sup>10</sup>The field which Abraham purchased of the children of Heth. There was Abraham buried, and Sarah his wife. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.25.11" data-parsed="Gen_25_11_0_0" data-passage="Gen 25.11" id="Gen.25.11"/><sup>11</sup>And it came to pass after the death of Abraham, that God blessed Isaac his son. And Isaac dwelt by Beer-lahai-roi.</p>
<p id="Gen.25-p2">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.25.12" data-parsed="Gen_25_12_0_0" data-passage="Gen 25.12" id="Gen.25.12"/><sup>12</sup>Now these are the generations of Ishmael, Abraham's son, whom Hagar the Egyptian, Sarah's handmaid, bare unto Abraham. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.25.13" data-parsed="Gen_25_13_0_0" data-passage="Gen 25.13" id="Gen.25.13"/><sup>13</sup>And these are the names of the sons of Ishmael, by their names, according to their generations: the first-born of Ishmael, Nebaioth, and Kedar, and Adbeel, and Mibsam, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.25.14" data-parsed="Gen_25_14_0_0" data-passage="Gen 25.14" id="Gen.25.14"/><sup>14</sup>and Mishma, and Dumah, and Massa, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.25.15" data-parsed="Gen_25_15_0_0" data-passage="Gen 25.15" id="Gen.25.15"/><sup>15</sup>Hadad, and Tema, Jetur, Naphish, and Kedemah. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.25.16" data-parsed="Gen_25_16_0_0" data-passage="Gen 25.16" id="Gen.25.16"/><sup>16</sup>These are the sons of Ishmael, and these are their names, by their villages, and by their encampments. Twelve princes according to their nations. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.25.17" data-parsed="Gen_25_17_0_0" data-passage="Gen 25.17" id="Gen.25.17"/><sup>17</sup>And these are the years of the life of Ishmael, a hundred and thirty and seven years. And he gave up the ghost and died, and was gathered unto his people. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.25.18" data-parsed="Gen_25_18_0_0" data-passage="Gen 25.18" id="Gen.25.18"/><sup>18</sup>And they dwelt from Havilah unto Shur that is before Egypt, as thou goest toward Assyria. He abode over against all his brethren.</p>
<p id="Gen.25-p3">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.25.19" data-parsed="Gen_25_19_0_0" data-passage="Gen 25.19" id="Gen.25.19"/><sup>19</sup>And these are the generations of Isaac, Abraham's son. Abraham begat Isaac. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.25.20" data-parsed="Gen_25_20_0_0" data-passage="Gen 25.20" id="Gen.25.20"/><sup>20</sup>And Isaac was forty years old when he took Rebekah, the daughter of Bethuel the Syrian of Paddan-aram, the sister of Laban the Syrian, to be his wife. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.25.21" data-parsed="Gen_25_21_0_0" data-passage="Gen 25.21" id="Gen.25.21"/><sup>21</sup>And Isaac entreated Jehovah for his wife, because she was barren. And Jehovah was entreated of him, and Rebekah his wife conceived.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.25.22" data-parsed="Gen_25_22_0_0" data-passage="Gen 25.22" id="Gen.25.22"/><sup>22</sup>And the children struggled together within her. And she said, If it be so, wherefore do I live? And she went to inquire of Jehovah. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.25.23" data-parsed="Gen_25_23_0_0" data-passage="Gen 25.23" id="Gen.25.23"/><sup>23</sup>And Jehovah said unto her,</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Gen.25-p4">
Two nations are in thy womb,</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Gen.25-p5">
And two peoples shall be separated from thy bowels.</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Gen.25-p6">
And the one people shall be stronger than the other people.</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Gen.25-p7">
And the elder shall serve the younger.</p>
<p id="Gen.25-p8">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.25.24" data-parsed="Gen_25_24_0_0" data-passage="Gen 25.24" id="Gen.25.24"/><sup>24</sup>And when her days to be delivered were fulfilled, behold, there were twins in her womb. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.25.25" data-parsed="Gen_25_25_0_0" data-passage="Gen 25.25" id="Gen.25.25"/><sup>25</sup>And the first came forth red, all over like a hairy garment. And they called his name Esau. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.25.26" data-parsed="Gen_25_26_0_0" data-passage="Gen 25.26" id="Gen.25.26"/><sup>26</sup>And after that came forth his brother, and his hand had hold on Esau's heel. And his name was called Jacob.
And Isaac was threescore years old when she bare them.</p>
<p id="Gen.25-p9">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.25.27" data-parsed="Gen_25_27_0_0" data-passage="Gen 25.27" id="Gen.25.27"/><sup>27</sup>And the boys grew. And Esau was a skilful hunter, a man of the field.
And Jacob was a quiet man, dwelling in tents. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.25.28" data-parsed="Gen_25_28_0_0" data-passage="Gen 25.28" id="Gen.25.28"/><sup>28</sup>Now Isaac loved Esau,
because he did eat of his venison. And Rebekah loved Jacob. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.25.29" data-parsed="Gen_25_29_0_0" data-passage="Gen 25.29" id="Gen.25.29"/><sup>29</sup>And Jacob boiled pottage. And Esau came in from the field, and he was faint. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.25.30" data-parsed="Gen_25_30_0_0" data-passage="Gen 25.30" id="Gen.25.30"/><sup>30</sup>And Esau said to Jacob, Feed me, I pray thee, with that same red <i>pottage</i>.
For I am faint. Therefore was his name called Edom. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.25.31" data-parsed="Gen_25_31_0_0" data-passage="Gen 25.31" id="Gen.25.31"/><sup>31</sup>And Jacob said,
Sell me first thy birthright. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.25.32" data-parsed="Gen_25_32_0_0" data-passage="Gen 25.32" id="Gen.25.32"/><sup>32</sup>And Esau said, Behold, I am about to die.
And what profit shall the birthright do to me? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.25.33" data-parsed="Gen_25_33_0_0" data-passage="Gen 25.33" id="Gen.25.33"/><sup>33</sup>And Jacob said, Swear to me first. And he sware unto him. And he sold his birthright unto Jacob.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.25.34" data-parsed="Gen_25_34_0_0" data-passage="Gen 25.34" id="Gen.25.34"/><sup>34</sup>And Jacob gave Esau bread and pottage of lentils. And he did eat and drink, and rose up, and went his way. So Esau despised his birthright.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>