<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Genesis 22</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Genesis 22</span></div><div data-next="Gen.23" data-prev="Gen.21" data-progress="2.68%" data-shorttitle="" id="Gen.22" title="Genesis 22">
<h2 id="Gen.22-p0.1">22</h2>
<p id="Gen.22-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.22.1" data-parsed="Gen_22_1_0_0" data-passage="Gen 22.1" id="Gen.22.1"/><sup>1</sup>And it came to pass after these things, that God did prove Abraham, and said unto him, Abraham. And he said, Here am I. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.22.2" data-parsed="Gen_22_2_0_0" data-passage="Gen 22.2" id="Gen.22.2"/><sup>2</sup>And he said, Take now thy son, thine only son, whom thou lovest, even Isaac, and get thee into the land of Moriah. And offer him there for a burnt-offering upon one of the mountains which I will tell thee of. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.22.3" data-parsed="Gen_22_3_0_0" data-passage="Gen 22.3" id="Gen.22.3"/><sup>3</sup>And Abraham rose early in the morning, and saddled his ass, and took two of his young men with him,
and Isaac his son. And he clave the wood for the burnt-offering, and rose up,
and went unto the place of which God had told him. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.22.4" data-parsed="Gen_22_4_0_0" data-passage="Gen 22.4" id="Gen.22.4"/><sup>4</sup>On the third day Abraham lifted up his eyes, and saw the place afar off. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.22.5" data-parsed="Gen_22_5_0_0" data-passage="Gen 22.5" id="Gen.22.5"/><sup>5</sup>And Abraham said unto his young men, Abide ye here with the ass, and I and the lad will go yonder; and we will worship, and come again to you. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.22.6" data-parsed="Gen_22_6_0_0" data-passage="Gen 22.6" id="Gen.22.6"/><sup>6</sup>And Abraham took the wood of the burnt-offering, and laid it upon Isaac his son. And he took in his hand the fire and the knife. And they went both of them together.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.22.7" data-parsed="Gen_22_7_0_0" data-passage="Gen 22.7" id="Gen.22.7"/><sup>7</sup>And Isaac spake unto Abraham his father, and said, My father. And he said, Here am I, my son. And he said, Behold, the fire and the wood. But where is the lamb for a burnt-offering? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.22.8" data-parsed="Gen_22_8_0_0" data-passage="Gen 22.8" id="Gen.22.8"/><sup>8</sup>And Abraham said, God will provide himself the lamb for a burnt-offering, my son. So they went both of them together.</p>
<p id="Gen.22-p2">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.22.9" data-parsed="Gen_22_9_0_0" data-passage="Gen 22.9" id="Gen.22.9"/><sup>9</sup>And they came to the place which God had told him of. And Abraham built the altar there, and laid the wood in order, and bound Isaac his son, and laid him on the altar, upon the wood. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.22.10" data-parsed="Gen_22_10_0_0" data-passage="Gen 22.10" id="Gen.22.10"/><sup>10</sup>And Abraham stretched forth his hand, and took the knife to slay his son. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.22.11" data-parsed="Gen_22_11_0_0" data-passage="Gen 22.11" id="Gen.22.11"/><sup>11</sup>And the angel of Jehovah called unto him out of heaven, and said, Abraham, Abraham. And he said, Here I am. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.22.12" data-parsed="Gen_22_12_0_0" data-passage="Gen 22.12" id="Gen.22.12"/><sup>12</sup>And he said, Lay not thy hand upon the lad, neither do thou anything unto him. For now I know that thou fearest God, seeing thou hast not withheld thy son, thine only son, from me. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.22.13" data-parsed="Gen_22_13_0_0" data-passage="Gen 22.13" id="Gen.22.13"/><sup>13</sup>And Abraham lifted up his eyes, and looked, and behold, behind <i>him</i> a ram caught in the thicket by his horns. And Abraham went and took the ram, and offered him up for a burnt-offering in the stead of his son. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.22.14" data-parsed="Gen_22_14_0_0" data-passage="Gen 22.14" id="Gen.22.14"/><sup>14</sup>And Abraham called the name of that place Jehovah-jireh. As it is said to this day, In the mount of Jehovah it shall be provided. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.22.15" data-parsed="Gen_22_15_0_0" data-passage="Gen 22.15" id="Gen.22.15"/><sup>15</sup>And the angel of Jehovah called unto Abraham a second time out of heaven, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.22.16" data-parsed="Gen_22_16_0_0" data-passage="Gen 22.16" id="Gen.22.16"/><sup>16</sup>and said, By myself have I sworn, saith Jehovah, because thou hast done this thing, and hast not withheld thy son,
thine only son, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.22.17" data-parsed="Gen_22_17_0_0" data-passage="Gen 22.17" id="Gen.22.17"/><sup>17</sup>that in blessing I will bless thee, and in multiplying I will multiply thy seed as the stars of the heavens, and as the sand which is upon the seashore. And thy seed shall possess the gate of his enemies.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.22.18" data-parsed="Gen_22_18_0_0" data-passage="Gen 22.18" id="Gen.22.18"/><sup>18</sup>And in thy seed shall all the nations of the earth be blessed. Because thou hast obeyed my voice. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.22.19" data-parsed="Gen_22_19_0_0" data-passage="Gen 22.19" id="Gen.22.19"/><sup>19</sup>So Abraham returned unto his young men, and they rose up and went together to Beer-sheba. And Abraham dwelt at Beer-sheba.</p>
<p id="Gen.22-p3">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.22.20" data-parsed="Gen_22_20_0_0" data-passage="Gen 22.20" id="Gen.22.20"/><sup>20</sup>And it came to pass after these things, that it was told Abraham,
saying, Behold, Milcah, she also hath borne children unto they brother Nahor.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.22.21" data-parsed="Gen_22_21_0_0" data-passage="Gen 22.21" id="Gen.22.21"/><sup>21</sup>Uz his first-born, and Buz his brother, and Kemuel the father of Aram.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.22.22" data-parsed="Gen_22_22_0_0" data-passage="Gen 22.22" id="Gen.22.22"/><sup>22</sup>And Chesed, and Hazo, and Pildash, and Jidlaph, and Bethuel. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.22.23" data-parsed="Gen_22_23_0_0" data-passage="Gen 22.23" id="Gen.22.23"/><sup>23</sup>And Bethuel begat Rebekah. These eight did Milcah bear to Nahor, Abraham's brother. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.22.24" data-parsed="Gen_22_24_0_0" data-passage="Gen 22.24" id="Gen.22.24"/><sup>24</sup>And his concubine, whose name was Reumah, she also bare Tebah,
and Gaham, and Tahash, and Maacah.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>