<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Genesis 20</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Genesis 20</span></div><div data-next="Gen.21" data-prev="Gen.19" data-progress="2.52%" data-shorttitle="" id="Gen.20" title="Genesis 20">
<h2 id="Gen.20-p0.1">20</h2>
<p id="Gen.20-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.20.1" data-parsed="Gen_20_1_0_0" data-passage="Gen 20.1" id="Gen.20.1"/><sup>1</sup>And Abraham journeyed from thence toward the land of the South,
and dwelt between Kadesh and Shur. And he sojourned in Gerar. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.20.2" data-parsed="Gen_20_2_0_0" data-passage="Gen 20.2" id="Gen.20.2"/><sup>2</sup>And Abraham said of Sarah his wife, She is my sister. And Abimelech king of Gerar sent, and took Sarah. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.20.3" data-parsed="Gen_20_3_0_0" data-passage="Gen 20.3" id="Gen.20.3"/><sup>3</sup>But God came to Abimelech in a dream of the night,
and said to him, Behold, thou art but a dead man, because of the woman whom thou hast taken. For she is a man's wife. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.20.4" data-parsed="Gen_20_4_0_0" data-passage="Gen 20.4" id="Gen.20.4"/><sup>4</sup>Now Abimelech had not come near her. And he said, Lord, wilt thou slay even a righteous nation?

<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.20.5" data-parsed="Gen_20_5_0_0" data-passage="Gen 20.5" id="Gen.20.5"/><sup>5</sup>Said he not himself unto me, She is my sister? And she, even she herself said, He is my brother. In the integrity of my heart and the innocency of my hands have I done this. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.20.6" data-parsed="Gen_20_6_0_0" data-passage="Gen 20.6" id="Gen.20.6"/><sup>6</sup>And God said unto him in the dream, Yea, I know that in the integrity of thy heart thou has done this, and I also withheld thee from sinning against me. Therefore suffered I thee not to touch her.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.20.7" data-parsed="Gen_20_7_0_0" data-passage="Gen 20.7" id="Gen.20.7"/><sup>7</sup>Now therefore restore the man's wife. For he is a prophet, and he shall pray for thee, and thou shalt live. And if thou restore her not, know thou that thou shalt surely die, thou, and all that are thine.</p>
<p id="Gen.20-p2">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.20.8" data-parsed="Gen_20_8_0_0" data-passage="Gen 20.8" id="Gen.20.8"/><sup>8</sup>And Abimelech rose early in the morning, and called all his servants,
and told all these things in their ear. And the men were sore afraid.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.20.9" data-parsed="Gen_20_9_0_0" data-passage="Gen 20.9" id="Gen.20.9"/><sup>9</sup>Then Abimelech called Abraham, and said unto him, What hast thou done unto us? And wherein have I sinned against thee, that thou hast brought on me and on my kingdom a great sin? Thou hast done deeds unto me that ought not to be done. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.20.10" data-parsed="Gen_20_10_0_0" data-passage="Gen 20.10" id="Gen.20.10"/><sup>10</sup>And Abimelech said unto Abraham, What sawest thou, that thou hast done this thing? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.20.11" data-parsed="Gen_20_11_0_0" data-passage="Gen 20.11" id="Gen.20.11"/><sup>11</sup>And Abraham said, Because I thought, Surely the fear of God is not in this place. And they will slay me for my wife's sake.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.20.12" data-parsed="Gen_20_12_0_0" data-passage="Gen 20.12" id="Gen.20.12"/><sup>12</sup>And moreover she is indeed my sister, the daughter of my father, but not the daughter of my mother; and she became my wife: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.20.13" data-parsed="Gen_20_13_0_0" data-passage="Gen 20.13" id="Gen.20.13"/><sup>13</sup>and it came to pass, when God caused me to wander from my father's house, that I said unto her, This is thy kindness which thou shalt show unto me. At every place whither we shall come, say of me, He is my brother. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.20.14" data-parsed="Gen_20_14_0_0" data-passage="Gen 20.14" id="Gen.20.14"/><sup>14</sup>And Abimelech took sheep and oxen, and men-servants and women-servants, and gave them unto Abraham, and restored him Sarah his wife. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.20.15" data-parsed="Gen_20_15_0_0" data-passage="Gen 20.15" id="Gen.20.15"/><sup>15</sup>And Abimelech said, Behold,
my land is before thee. Dwell where it pleaseth thee. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.20.16" data-parsed="Gen_20_16_0_0" data-passage="Gen 20.16" id="Gen.20.16"/><sup>16</sup>And unto Sarah he said, Behold, I have given thy brother a thousand pieces of silver. Behold,
it is for thee a covering of the eyes to all that are with thee. And in respect of all thou art righted. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.20.17" data-parsed="Gen_20_17_0_0" data-passage="Gen 20.17" id="Gen.20.17"/><sup>17</sup>And Abraham prayed unto God. And God healed Abimelech, and his wife, and his maid-servants. And they bare children. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.20.18" data-parsed="Gen_20_18_0_0" data-passage="Gen 20.18" id="Gen.20.18"/><sup>18</sup>For Jehovah had fast closed up all the wombs of the house of Abimelech, because of Sarah, Abraham's wife.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>