<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Genesis 32</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Genesis 32</span></div><div data-next="Gen.33" data-prev="Gen.31" data-progress="3.87%" data-shorttitle="" id="Gen.32" title="Genesis 32">
<h2 id="Gen.32-p0.1">32</h2>
<p id="Gen.32-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.32.1" data-parsed="Gen_32_1_0_0" data-passage="Gen 32.1" id="Gen.32.1"/><sup>1</sup>And Jacob went on his way, and the angels of God met him. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.32.2" data-parsed="Gen_32_2_0_0" data-passage="Gen 32.2" id="Gen.32.2"/><sup>2</sup>And Jacob said when he saw them, This is God's host: and he called the name of that place Mahanaim.</p>
<p id="Gen.32-p2">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.32.3" data-parsed="Gen_32_3_0_0" data-passage="Gen 32.3" id="Gen.32.3"/><sup>3</sup>And Jacob sent messengers before him to Esau his brother unto the land of Seir, the field of Edom. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.32.4" data-parsed="Gen_32_4_0_0" data-passage="Gen 32.4" id="Gen.32.4"/><sup>4</sup>And he commanded them, saying, Thus shall ye say unto my lord Esau: Thus saith thy servant Jacob, I have sojourned with Laban, and stayed until now: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.32.5" data-parsed="Gen_32_5_0_0" data-passage="Gen 32.5" id="Gen.32.5"/><sup>5</sup>and I have oxen, and asses, <i>and</i>
flocks, and men-servants, and maid-servants: and I have sent to tell my lord,
that I may find favor in thy sight. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.32.6" data-parsed="Gen_32_6_0_0" data-passage="Gen 32.6" id="Gen.32.6"/><sup>6</sup>And the messengers returned to Jacob, saying, We came to thy brother Esau, and moreover he cometh to meet thee, and four hundred men with him. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.32.7" data-parsed="Gen_32_7_0_0" data-passage="Gen 32.7" id="Gen.32.7"/><sup>7</sup>Then Jacob was greatly afraid and was distressed: and he divided the people that were with him, and the flocks,
and the herds, and the camels, into two companies; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.32.8" data-parsed="Gen_32_8_0_0" data-passage="Gen 32.8" id="Gen.32.8"/><sup>8</sup>and he said, If Esau come to the one company, and smite it, then the company which is left shall escape. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.32.9" data-parsed="Gen_32_9_0_0" data-passage="Gen 32.9" id="Gen.32.9"/><sup>9</sup>And Jacob said, O God of my father Abraham, and God of my father Isaac, O Jehovah, who saidst unto me, Return unto thy country, and to thy kindred, and I will do thee good: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.32.10" data-parsed="Gen_32_10_0_0" data-passage="Gen 32.10" id="Gen.32.10"/><sup>10</sup>I am not worthy of the least of all the lovingkindnesses, and of all the truth, which thou hast showed unto thy servant; for with my staff I passed over this Jordan; and now I am become two companies. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.32.11" data-parsed="Gen_32_11_0_0" data-passage="Gen 32.11" id="Gen.32.11"/><sup>11</sup>Deliver me, I pray thee, from the hand of my brother, from the hand of Esau: for I fear him, lest he come and smite me, the mother with the children. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.32.12" data-parsed="Gen_32_12_0_0" data-passage="Gen 32.12" id="Gen.32.12"/><sup>12</sup>And thou saidst, I will surely do thee good, and make thy seed as the sand of the sea, which cannot be numbered for multitude.</p>
<p id="Gen.32-p3">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.32.13" data-parsed="Gen_32_13_0_0" data-passage="Gen 32.13" id="Gen.32.13"/><sup>13</sup>And he lodged there that night, and took of that which he had with him a present for Esau his brother: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.32.14" data-parsed="Gen_32_14_0_0" data-passage="Gen 32.14" id="Gen.32.14"/><sup>14</sup>two hundred she-goats and twenty he-goats, two hundred ewes and twenty rams, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.32.15" data-parsed="Gen_32_15_0_0" data-passage="Gen 32.15" id="Gen.32.15"/><sup>15</sup>thirty milch camels and their colts, forty cows and ten bulls, twenty she-asses and ten foals.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.32.16" data-parsed="Gen_32_16_0_0" data-passage="Gen 32.16" id="Gen.32.16"/><sup>16</sup>And he delivered them into the hand of his servants, every drove by itself, and said unto his servants, Pass over before me, and put a space betwixt drove and drove. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.32.17" data-parsed="Gen_32_17_0_0" data-passage="Gen 32.17" id="Gen.32.17"/><sup>17</sup>And he commanded the foremost, saying, When Esau my brother meeteth thee, and asketh thee, saying, Whose art thou? and whither goest thou? and whose are these before thee? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.32.18" data-parsed="Gen_32_18_0_0" data-passage="Gen 32.18" id="Gen.32.18"/><sup>18</sup>then thou shalt say <i>They are</i> thy servant Jacob's; it is a present sent unto my lord Esau: and, behold, he also is behind us. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.32.19" data-parsed="Gen_32_19_0_0" data-passage="Gen 32.19" id="Gen.32.19"/><sup>19</sup>And he commanded also the second, and the third, and all that followed the droves, saying, On this manner shall ye speak unto Esau, when ye find him; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.32.20" data-parsed="Gen_32_20_0_0" data-passage="Gen 32.20" id="Gen.32.20"/><sup>20</sup>and ye shall say,
Moreover, behold, thy servant Jacob is behind us. For he said, I will appease him with the present that goeth before me, and afterward I will see his face;
peradventure he will accept me. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.32.21" data-parsed="Gen_32_21_0_0" data-passage="Gen 32.21" id="Gen.32.21"/><sup>21</sup>So the present passed over before him:
and he himself lodged that night in the company.</p>
<p id="Gen.32-p4">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.32.22" data-parsed="Gen_32_22_0_0" data-passage="Gen 32.22" id="Gen.32.22"/><sup>22</sup>And he rose up that night, and took his two wives, and his two handmaids, and his eleven children, and passed over the ford of the Jabbok.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.32.23" data-parsed="Gen_32_23_0_0" data-passage="Gen 32.23" id="Gen.32.23"/><sup>23</sup>And he took them, and sent them over the stream, and sent over that which he had. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.32.24" data-parsed="Gen_32_24_0_0" data-passage="Gen 32.24" id="Gen.32.24"/><sup>24</sup>And Jacob was left alone; and there wrestled a man with him until the breaking of the day. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.32.25" data-parsed="Gen_32_25_0_0" data-passage="Gen 32.25" id="Gen.32.25"/><sup>25</sup>And when he saw that he prevailed not against him, he touched the hollow of his thigh; and the hollow of Jacob's thigh was strained, as he wrestled with him. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.32.26" data-parsed="Gen_32_26_0_0" data-passage="Gen 32.26" id="Gen.32.26"/><sup>26</sup>And he said, Let me go, for the day breaketh. And he said, I will not let thee go, except thou bless me. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.32.27" data-parsed="Gen_32_27_0_0" data-passage="Gen 32.27" id="Gen.32.27"/><sup>27</sup>And he said unto him, What is thy name? And he said, Jacob.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.32.28" data-parsed="Gen_32_28_0_0" data-passage="Gen 32.28" id="Gen.32.28"/><sup>28</sup>And he said, Thy name shall be called no more Jacob, but Israel: for thou hast striven with God and with men, and hast prevailed. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.32.29" data-parsed="Gen_32_29_0_0" data-passage="Gen 32.29" id="Gen.32.29"/><sup>29</sup>And Jacob asked him, and said, Tell me, I pray thee, thy name. And he said, Wherefore is it that thou dost ask after my name? And he blessed him there. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.32.30" data-parsed="Gen_32_30_0_0" data-passage="Gen 32.30" id="Gen.32.30"/><sup>30</sup>And Jacob called the name of the place Peniel: for, <i>said he</i>, I have seen God face to face, and my life is preserved. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.32.31" data-parsed="Gen_32_31_0_0" data-passage="Gen 32.31" id="Gen.32.31"/><sup>31</sup>And the sun rose upon him as he passed over Penuel, and he limped upon his thigh. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.32.32" data-parsed="Gen_32_32_0_0" data-passage="Gen 32.32" id="Gen.32.32"/><sup>32</sup>Therefore the children of Israel eat not the sinew of the hip which is upon the hollow of the thigh, unto this day: because he touched the hollow of Jacob's thigh in the sinew of the hip.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>