<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Genesis 33</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Genesis 33</span></div><div data-next="Gen.34" data-prev="Gen.32" data-progress="3.96%" data-shorttitle="" id="Gen.33" title="Genesis 33">
<h2 id="Gen.33-p0.1">33</h2>
<p id="Gen.33-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.33.1" data-parsed="Gen_33_1_0_0" data-passage="Gen 33.1" id="Gen.33.1"/><sup>1</sup>And Jacob lifted up his eyes, and looked, and, behold, Esau was coming, and with him four hundred men. And he divided the children unto Leah,
and unto Rachel, and unto the two handmaids. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.33.2" data-parsed="Gen_33_2_0_0" data-passage="Gen 33.2" id="Gen.33.2"/><sup>2</sup>And he put the handmaids and their children foremost, and Leah and her children after, and Rachel and Joseph hindermost. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.33.3" data-parsed="Gen_33_3_0_0" data-passage="Gen 33.3" id="Gen.33.3"/><sup>3</sup>And he himself passed over before them, and bowed himself to the ground seven times, until he came near to his brother.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.33.4" data-parsed="Gen_33_4_0_0" data-passage="Gen 33.4" id="Gen.33.4"/><sup>4</sup>And Esau ran to meet him, and embraced him, and fell on his neck, and kissed him: and they wept. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.33.5" data-parsed="Gen_33_5_0_0" data-passage="Gen 33.5" id="Gen.33.5"/><sup>5</sup>And he lifted up his eyes, and saw the women and the children; and said, Who are these with thee? And he said, The children whom God hath graciously given thy servant. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.33.6" data-parsed="Gen_33_6_0_0" data-passage="Gen 33.6" id="Gen.33.6"/><sup>6</sup>Then the handmaids came near, they and their children, and they bowed themselves. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.33.7" data-parsed="Gen_33_7_0_0" data-passage="Gen 33.7" id="Gen.33.7"/><sup>7</sup>And Leah also and her children came near, and bowed themselves: and after came Joseph near and Rachel, and they bowed themselves. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.33.8" data-parsed="Gen_33_8_0_0" data-passage="Gen 33.8" id="Gen.33.8"/><sup>8</sup>And he said, What meanest thou by all this company which I met? And he said, To find favor in the sight of my lord. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.33.9" data-parsed="Gen_33_9_0_0" data-passage="Gen 33.9" id="Gen.33.9"/><sup>9</sup>And Esau said, I have enough, my brother; let that which thou hast be thine. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.33.10" data-parsed="Gen_33_10_0_0" data-passage="Gen 33.10" id="Gen.33.10"/><sup>10</sup>And Jacob said, Nay, I pray thee, if now I have found favor in thy sight, then receive my present at my hand; forasmuch as I have seen thy face, as one seeth the face of God, and thou wast pleased with me. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.33.11" data-parsed="Gen_33_11_0_0" data-passage="Gen 33.11" id="Gen.33.11"/><sup>11</sup>Take, I pray thee, my gift that is brought to thee; because God hath dealt graciously with me, and because I have enough. And he urged him,
and he took it. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.33.12" data-parsed="Gen_33_12_0_0" data-passage="Gen 33.12" id="Gen.33.12"/><sup>12</sup>And he said, Let us take our journey, and let us go,
and I will go before thee. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.33.13" data-parsed="Gen_33_13_0_0" data-passage="Gen 33.13" id="Gen.33.13"/><sup>13</sup>And he said unto him, My lord knoweth that the children are tender, and that the flocks and herds with me have their young: and if they overdrive them one day, all the flocks will die. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.33.14" data-parsed="Gen_33_14_0_0" data-passage="Gen 33.14" id="Gen.33.14"/><sup>14</sup>Let my lord, I pray thee, pass over before his servant: and I will lead on gently, according to the pace of the cattle that are before me and according to the pace of the children, until I come unto my lord unto Seir. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.33.15" data-parsed="Gen_33_15_0_0" data-passage="Gen 33.15" id="Gen.33.15"/><sup>15</sup>And Esau said, Let me now leave with thee some of the folk that are with me. And he said, What needeth it? let me find favor in the sight of my lord. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.33.16" data-parsed="Gen_33_16_0_0" data-passage="Gen 33.16" id="Gen.33.16"/><sup>16</sup>So Esau returned that day on his way unto Seir. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.33.17" data-parsed="Gen_33_17_0_0" data-passage="Gen 33.17" id="Gen.33.17"/><sup>17</sup>And Jacob journeyed to Succoth, and built him a house, and made booths for his cattle: therefore the name of the place is called Succoth.</p>
<p id="Gen.33-p2">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.33.18" data-parsed="Gen_33_18_0_0" data-passage="Gen 33.18" id="Gen.33.18"/><sup>18</sup>And Jacob came in peace to the city of Shechem, which is in the land of Canaan, when he came from Paddan-aram; and encamped before the city.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.33.19" data-parsed="Gen_33_19_0_0" data-passage="Gen 33.19" id="Gen.33.19"/><sup>19</sup>And he bought the parcel of ground, where he had spread his tent, at the hand of the children of Hamor, Shechem's father, for a hundred pieces of money. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.33.20" data-parsed="Gen_33_20_0_0" data-passage="Gen 33.20" id="Gen.33.20"/><sup>20</sup>And he erected there an altar, and called it El-elohe-israel.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>