<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Genesis 37</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Genesis 37</span></div><div data-next="Gen.38" data-prev="Gen.36" data-progress="4.32%" data-shorttitle="" id="Gen.37" title="Genesis 37">
<h2 id="Gen.37-p0.1">37</h2>
<p id="Gen.37-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.37.1" data-parsed="Gen_37_1_0_0" data-passage="Gen 37.1" id="Gen.37.1"/><sup>1</sup>And Jacob dwelt in the land of his father's sojournings, in the land of Canaan. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.37.2" data-parsed="Gen_37_2_0_0" data-passage="Gen 37.2" id="Gen.37.2"/><sup>2</sup>These are the generations of Jacob. Joseph, being seventeen years old, was feeding the flock with his brethren; and he was a lad with the sons of Bilhah, and with the sons of Zilpah, his father's wives:
and Joseph brought the evil report of them unto their father. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.37.3" data-parsed="Gen_37_3_0_0" data-passage="Gen 37.3" id="Gen.37.3"/><sup>3</sup>Now Israel loved Joseph more than all his children, because he was the son of his old age: and he made him a coat of many colors. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.37.4" data-parsed="Gen_37_4_0_0" data-passage="Gen 37.4" id="Gen.37.4"/><sup>4</sup>And his brethren saw that their father loved him more than all his brethren; and they hated him, and could not speak peaceably unto him.</p>
<p id="Gen.37-p2">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.37.5" data-parsed="Gen_37_5_0_0" data-passage="Gen 37.5" id="Gen.37.5"/><sup>5</sup>And Joseph dreamed a dream, and he told it to his brethren: and they hated him yet the more. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.37.6" data-parsed="Gen_37_6_0_0" data-passage="Gen 37.6" id="Gen.37.6"/><sup>6</sup>And he said unto them, Hear, I pray you, this dream which I have dreamed: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.37.7" data-parsed="Gen_37_7_0_0" data-passage="Gen 37.7" id="Gen.37.7"/><sup>7</sup>for, behold, we were binding sheaves in the field, and, lo, my sheaf arose, and also stood upright; and, behold, your sheaves came round about, and made obeisance to my sheaf. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.37.8" data-parsed="Gen_37_8_0_0" data-passage="Gen 37.8" id="Gen.37.8"/><sup>8</sup>And his brethren said to him, Shalt thou indeed reign over us? Or shalt thou indeed have dominion over us? And they hated him yet the more for his dreams, and for his words. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.37.9" data-parsed="Gen_37_9_0_0" data-passage="Gen 37.9" id="Gen.37.9"/><sup>9</sup>And he dreamed yet another dream, and told it to his brethren, and said, Behold, I have dreamed yet a dream: and, behold, the sun and the moon and eleven stars made obeisance to me. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.37.10" data-parsed="Gen_37_10_0_0" data-passage="Gen 37.10" id="Gen.37.10"/><sup>10</sup>And he told it to his father, and to his brethren; and his father rebuked him, and said unto him, What is this dream that thou hast dreamed? Shall I and thy mother and thy brethren indeed come to bow down ourselves to thee to the earth?

<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.37.11" data-parsed="Gen_37_11_0_0" data-passage="Gen 37.11" id="Gen.37.11"/><sup>11</sup>And his brethren envied him; but his father kept the saying in mind.</p>
<p id="Gen.37-p3">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.37.12" data-parsed="Gen_37_12_0_0" data-passage="Gen 37.12" id="Gen.37.12"/><sup>12</sup>And his brethren went to feed their father's flock in Shechem.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.37.13" data-parsed="Gen_37_13_0_0" data-passage="Gen 37.13" id="Gen.37.13"/><sup>13</sup>And Israel said unto Joseph, Are not thy brethren feeding the flock in Shechem? Come, and I will send thee unto them. And he said to him, Here am I.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.37.14" data-parsed="Gen_37_14_0_0" data-passage="Gen 37.14" id="Gen.37.14"/><sup>14</sup>And he said to him, Go now, see whether it is well with thy brethren,
and well with the flock; and bring me word again. So he sent him out of the vale of Hebron, and he came to Shechem. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.37.15" data-parsed="Gen_37_15_0_0" data-passage="Gen 37.15" id="Gen.37.15"/><sup>15</sup>And a certain man found him,
and, behold, he was wandering in the field: and the man asked him, saying,
What seekest thou? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.37.16" data-parsed="Gen_37_16_0_0" data-passage="Gen 37.16" id="Gen.37.16"/><sup>16</sup>And he said, I am seeking my brethren: tell me, I pray thee, where they are feeding <i>the flock</i>. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.37.17" data-parsed="Gen_37_17_0_0" data-passage="Gen 37.17" id="Gen.37.17"/><sup>17</sup>And the man said,
They are departed hence; for I heard them say, Let us go to Dothan. And Joseph went after his brethren, and found them in Dothan.</p>
<p id="Gen.37-p4">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.37.18" data-parsed="Gen_37_18_0_0" data-passage="Gen 37.18" id="Gen.37.18"/><sup>18</sup>And they saw him afar off, and before he came near unto them, they conspired against him to slay him. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.37.19" data-parsed="Gen_37_19_0_0" data-passage="Gen 37.19" id="Gen.37.19"/><sup>19</sup>And they said one to another,
Behold, this dreamer cometh. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.37.20" data-parsed="Gen_37_20_0_0" data-passage="Gen 37.20" id="Gen.37.20"/><sup>20</sup>Come now therefore, and let us slay him,
and cast him into one of the pits, and we will say, And evil beast hath devoured him: and we shall see what will become of his dreams. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.37.21" data-parsed="Gen_37_21_0_0" data-passage="Gen 37.21" id="Gen.37.21"/><sup>21</sup>And Reuben heard it, and delivered him out of their hand, and said, Let us not take his life. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.37.22" data-parsed="Gen_37_22_0_0" data-passage="Gen 37.22" id="Gen.37.22"/><sup>22</sup>And Reuben said unto them, Shed no blood; cast him into this pit that is in the wilderness, but lay no hand upon him: that he might deliver him out of their hand, to restore him to his father. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.37.23" data-parsed="Gen_37_23_0_0" data-passage="Gen 37.23" id="Gen.37.23"/><sup>23</sup>And it came to pass, when Joseph was come unto his brethren, that they stripped Joseph of his coat, the coat of many colors that was on him; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.37.24" data-parsed="Gen_37_24_0_0" data-passage="Gen 37.24" id="Gen.37.24"/><sup>24</sup>and they took him, and cast him into the pit: and the pit was empty, there was no water in it.</p>
<p id="Gen.37-p5">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.37.25" data-parsed="Gen_37_25_0_0" data-passage="Gen 37.25" id="Gen.37.25"/><sup>25</sup>And they sat down to eat bread: and they lifted up their eyes and looked, and, behold, a caravan of Ishmaelites was coming from Gilead, with their camels bearing spicery and balm and myrrh, going to carry it down to Egypt. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.37.26" data-parsed="Gen_37_26_0_0" data-passage="Gen 37.26" id="Gen.37.26"/><sup>26</sup>And Judah said unto his brethren, What profit is it if we slay our brother and conceal his blood? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.37.27" data-parsed="Gen_37_27_0_0" data-passage="Gen 37.27" id="Gen.37.27"/><sup>27</sup>Come, and let us sell him to the Ishmaelites, and let not our hand be upon him; for he is our brother, our flesh. And his brethren hearkened unto him. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.37.28" data-parsed="Gen_37_28_0_0" data-passage="Gen 37.28" id="Gen.37.28"/><sup>28</sup>And there passed by Midianites, merchantmen; and they drew and lifted up Joseph out of the pit,
and sold Joseph to the Ishmaelites for twenty pieces of silver. And they brought Joseph into Egypt.</p>
<p id="Gen.37-p6">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.37.29" data-parsed="Gen_37_29_0_0" data-passage="Gen 37.29" id="Gen.37.29"/><sup>29</sup>And Reuben returned unto the pit; and, behold, Joseph was not in the pit; and he rent his clothes. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.37.30" data-parsed="Gen_37_30_0_0" data-passage="Gen 37.30" id="Gen.37.30"/><sup>30</sup>And he returned unto his brethren, and said, The child is not; and I, whither shall I go? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.37.31" data-parsed="Gen_37_31_0_0" data-passage="Gen 37.31" id="Gen.37.31"/><sup>31</sup>And they took Joseph's coat, and killed a he-goat, and dipped the coat in the blood;

<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.37.32" data-parsed="Gen_37_32_0_0" data-passage="Gen 37.32" id="Gen.37.32"/><sup>32</sup>and they sent the coat of many colors, and they brought it to their father, and said, This have we found: know now whether it is thy son's coat or not. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.37.33" data-parsed="Gen_37_33_0_0" data-passage="Gen 37.33" id="Gen.37.33"/><sup>33</sup>And he knew it, and said, It is my son's coat: an evil beast hath devoured him; Joseph is without doubt torn in pieces. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.37.34" data-parsed="Gen_37_34_0_0" data-passage="Gen 37.34" id="Gen.37.34"/><sup>34</sup>And Jacob rent his garments, and put sackcloth upon his loins, and mourned for his son many days. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.37.35" data-parsed="Gen_37_35_0_0" data-passage="Gen 37.35" id="Gen.37.35"/><sup>35</sup>And all his sons and all his daughters rose up to comfort him; but he refused to be comforted; and he said, For I will go down to Sheol to my son mourning. And his father wept for him. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.37.36" data-parsed="Gen_37_36_0_0" data-passage="Gen 37.36" id="Gen.37.36"/><sup>36</sup>And the Midianites sold him into Egypt unto Potiphar, an officer of Pharaoh's, the captain of the guard.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>