<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Genesis 34</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Genesis 34</span></div><div data-next="Gen.35" data-prev="Gen.33" data-progress="4.03%" data-shorttitle="" id="Gen.34" title="Genesis 34">
<h2 id="Gen.34-p0.1">34</h2>
<p id="Gen.34-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.34.1" data-parsed="Gen_34_1_0_0" data-passage="Gen 34.1" id="Gen.34.1"/><sup>1</sup>And Dinah the daughter of Leah, whom she bare unto Jacob, went out to see the daughters of the land. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.34.2" data-parsed="Gen_34_2_0_0" data-passage="Gen 34.2" id="Gen.34.2"/><sup>2</sup>And Shechem the son of Hamor the Hivite, the prince of the land, saw her; And he took her, and lay with her,
and humbled her. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.34.3" data-parsed="Gen_34_3_0_0" data-passage="Gen 34.3" id="Gen.34.3"/><sup>3</sup>And his soul clave unto Dinah the daughter of Jacob,
and he loved the damsel, and spake kindly unto the damsel. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.34.4" data-parsed="Gen_34_4_0_0" data-passage="Gen 34.4" id="Gen.34.4"/><sup>4</sup>And Shechem spake unto his father Hamor, saying, Get me this damsel to wife. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.34.5" data-parsed="Gen_34_5_0_0" data-passage="Gen 34.5" id="Gen.34.5"/><sup>5</sup>Now Jacob heard that he had defiled Dinah his daughter; and his sons were with his cattle in the field: and Jacob held his peace until they came. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.34.6" data-parsed="Gen_34_6_0_0" data-passage="Gen 34.6" id="Gen.34.6"/><sup>6</sup>And Hamor the father of Shechem went out unto Jacob to commune with him. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.34.7" data-parsed="Gen_34_7_0_0" data-passage="Gen 34.7" id="Gen.34.7"/><sup>7</sup>And the sons of Jacob came in from the field when they heard it: and the men were grieved, and they were very wroth, because he had wrought folly in Israel in lying with Jacob's daughter; which thing ought not to be done. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.34.8" data-parsed="Gen_34_8_0_0" data-passage="Gen 34.8" id="Gen.34.8"/><sup>8</sup>And Hamor communed with them, saying, The soul of my son Shechem longeth for your daughter: I pray you, give her unto him to wife. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.34.9" data-parsed="Gen_34_9_0_0" data-passage="Gen 34.9" id="Gen.34.9"/><sup>9</sup>And make ye marriages with us; give your daughters unto us, and take our daughters unto you.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.34.10" data-parsed="Gen_34_10_0_0" data-passage="Gen 34.10" id="Gen.34.10"/><sup>10</sup>And ye shall dwell with us: and the land shall be before you; dwell and trade ye therein, and get you possessions therein. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.34.11" data-parsed="Gen_34_11_0_0" data-passage="Gen 34.11" id="Gen.34.11"/><sup>11</sup>And Shechem said unto her father and unto her brethren, Let me find favor in your eyes, and what ye shall say unto me I will give. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.34.12" data-parsed="Gen_34_12_0_0" data-passage="Gen 34.12" id="Gen.34.12"/><sup>12</sup>Ask me never so much dowry and gift, and I will give according as ye shall say unto me: but give me the damsel to wife. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.34.13" data-parsed="Gen_34_13_0_0" data-passage="Gen 34.13" id="Gen.34.13"/><sup>13</sup>And the sons of Jacob answered Shechem and Hamor his father with guile, and spake, because he had defiled Dinah their sister,

<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.34.14" data-parsed="Gen_34_14_0_0" data-passage="Gen 34.14" id="Gen.34.14"/><sup>14</sup>and said unto them, We cannot do this thing, to give our sister to one that is uncircumcised; for that were a reproach unto us. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.34.15" data-parsed="Gen_34_15_0_0" data-passage="Gen 34.15" id="Gen.34.15"/><sup>15</sup>Only on this condition will we consent unto you: if ye will be as we are, that every male of you be circumcised; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.34.16" data-parsed="Gen_34_16_0_0" data-passage="Gen 34.16" id="Gen.34.16"/><sup>16</sup>then will we give our daughters unto you, and we will take your daughters to us, and we will dwell with you, and we will become one people. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.34.17" data-parsed="Gen_34_17_0_0" data-passage="Gen 34.17" id="Gen.34.17"/><sup>17</sup>But if ye will not hearken unto us, to be circumcised; then will we take our daughter, and we will be gone.</p>
<p id="Gen.34-p2">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.34.18" data-parsed="Gen_34_18_0_0" data-passage="Gen 34.18" id="Gen.34.18"/><sup>18</sup>And their words pleased Hamor, and Shechem Hamor's son. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.34.19" data-parsed="Gen_34_19_0_0" data-passage="Gen 34.19" id="Gen.34.19"/><sup>19</sup>And the young man deferred not to do the thing, because he had delight in Jacob's daughter: and he was honored above all the house of his father. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.34.20" data-parsed="Gen_34_20_0_0" data-passage="Gen 34.20" id="Gen.34.20"/><sup>20</sup>And Hamor and Shechem his son came unto the gate of their city, and communed with the men of their city, saying, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.34.21" data-parsed="Gen_34_21_0_0" data-passage="Gen 34.21" id="Gen.34.21"/><sup>21</sup>These men are peaceable with us;
therefore let them dwell in the land, and trade therein; for, behold, the land is large enough for them; let us take their daughters to us for wives,
and let us give them our daughters. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.34.22" data-parsed="Gen_34_22_0_0" data-passage="Gen 34.22" id="Gen.34.22"/><sup>22</sup>Only on this condition will the men consent unto us to dwell with us, to become one people, if every male among us be circumcised, as they are circumcised. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.34.23" data-parsed="Gen_34_23_0_0" data-passage="Gen 34.23" id="Gen.34.23"/><sup>23</sup>Shall not their cattle and their substance and all their beasts be ours? only let us consent unto them,
and they will dwell with us. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.34.24" data-parsed="Gen_34_24_0_0" data-passage="Gen 34.24" id="Gen.34.24"/><sup>24</sup>And unto Hamor and unto Shechem his son hearkened all that went out of the gate of his city; and every male was circumcised, all that went out of the gate of his city. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.34.25" data-parsed="Gen_34_25_0_0" data-passage="Gen 34.25" id="Gen.34.25"/><sup>25</sup>And it came to pass on the third day, when they were sore, that two of the sons of Jacob,
Simeon and Levi, Dinah's brethren, took each man his sword, and came upon the city unawares, and slew all the males. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.34.26" data-parsed="Gen_34_26_0_0" data-passage="Gen 34.26" id="Gen.34.26"/><sup>26</sup>And they slew Hamor and Shechem his son with the edge of the sword, and took Dinah out of Shechem's house,
and went forth. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.34.27" data-parsed="Gen_34_27_0_0" data-passage="Gen 34.27" id="Gen.34.27"/><sup>27</sup>The sons of Jacob came upon the slain, and plundered the city, because they had defiled their sister. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.34.28" data-parsed="Gen_34_28_0_0" data-passage="Gen 34.28" id="Gen.34.28"/><sup>28</sup>They took their flocks and their herds and their asses, and that which was in the city, and that which was in the field; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.34.29" data-parsed="Gen_34_29_0_0" data-passage="Gen 34.29" id="Gen.34.29"/><sup>29</sup>and all their wealth, and all their little ones and their wives, took they captive and made a prey, even all that was in the house. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.34.30" data-parsed="Gen_34_30_0_0" data-passage="Gen 34.30" id="Gen.34.30"/><sup>30</sup>And Jacob said to Simeon and Levi, Ye have troubled me, to make me odious to the inhabitants of the land, among the Canaanites and the Perizzites: and, I being few in number, they will gather themselves together against me and smite me; and I shall be destroyed, I and my house. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.34.31" data-parsed="Gen_34_31_0_0" data-passage="Gen 34.31" id="Gen.34.31"/><sup>31</sup>And they said, Should he deal with our sister as with a harlot?</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>