<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Genesis 44</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Genesis 44</span></div><div data-next="Gen.45" data-prev="Gen.43" data-progress="5.08%" data-shorttitle="" id="Gen.44" title="Genesis 44">
<h2 id="Gen.44-p0.1">44</h2>
<p id="Gen.44-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.44.1" data-parsed="Gen_44_1_0_0" data-passage="Gen 44.1" id="Gen.44.1"/><sup>1</sup>And he commanded the steward of his house, saying, Fill the men's sacks with food, as much as they can carry, and put every man's money in his sack's mouth. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.44.2" data-parsed="Gen_44_2_0_0" data-passage="Gen 44.2" id="Gen.44.2"/><sup>2</sup>And put my cup, the silver cup, in the sack's mouth of the youngest, and his grain money. And he did according to the word that Joseph had spoken. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.44.3" data-parsed="Gen_44_3_0_0" data-passage="Gen 44.3" id="Gen.44.3"/><sup>3</sup>As soon as the morning was light, the men were sent away,
they and their asses. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.44.4" data-parsed="Gen_44_4_0_0" data-passage="Gen 44.4" id="Gen.44.4"/><sup>4</sup><i>And</i> when they were gone out of the city,
and were not yet far off, Joseph said unto his steward, Up, follow after the men; and when thou dost overtake them, say unto them, Wherefore have ye rewarded evil for good? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.44.5" data-parsed="Gen_44_5_0_0" data-passage="Gen 44.5" id="Gen.44.5"/><sup>5</sup>Is not this that in which my lord drinketh, and whereby he indeed divineth? ye have done evil in so doing. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.44.6" data-parsed="Gen_44_6_0_0" data-passage="Gen 44.6" id="Gen.44.6"/><sup>6</sup>And he overtook them, and he spake unto them these words. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.44.7" data-parsed="Gen_44_7_0_0" data-passage="Gen 44.7" id="Gen.44.7"/><sup>7</sup>And they said unto him, Wherefore speaketh my lord such words as these? Far be it from thy servants that they should do such a thing. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.44.8" data-parsed="Gen_44_8_0_0" data-passage="Gen 44.8" id="Gen.44.8"/><sup>8</sup>Behold, the money, which we found in our sacks' mouths, we brought again unto thee out of the land of Canaan: how then should we steal out of thy lord's house silver or gold?

<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.44.9" data-parsed="Gen_44_9_0_0" data-passage="Gen 44.9" id="Gen.44.9"/><sup>9</sup>With whomsoever of thy servants it be found, let him die, and we also will be my lord's bondmen. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.44.10" data-parsed="Gen_44_10_0_0" data-passage="Gen 44.10" id="Gen.44.10"/><sup>10</sup>And he said, Now also let it be according unto your words: he with whom it is found shall be my bondman; and ye shall be blameless. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.44.11" data-parsed="Gen_44_11_0_0" data-passage="Gen 44.11" id="Gen.44.11"/><sup>11</sup>Then they hasted, and took down every man his sack to the ground, and opened every man his sack. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.44.12" data-parsed="Gen_44_12_0_0" data-passage="Gen 44.12" id="Gen.44.12"/><sup>12</sup>And he searched, <i>and</i>
began at the eldest, and left off at the youngest: and the cup was found in Benjamin's sack. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.44.13" data-parsed="Gen_44_13_0_0" data-passage="Gen 44.13" id="Gen.44.13"/><sup>13</sup>Then they rent their clothes, and laded every man his ass, and returned to the city.</p>
<p id="Gen.44-p2">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.44.14" data-parsed="Gen_44_14_0_0" data-passage="Gen 44.14" id="Gen.44.14"/><sup>14</sup>And Judah and his brethren came to Joseph's house; and he was yet there: and they fell before him on the ground. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.44.15" data-parsed="Gen_44_15_0_0" data-passage="Gen 44.15" id="Gen.44.15"/><sup>15</sup>And Joseph said unto them, What deed is this that ye have done? know ye not that such a man as I can indeed divine? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.44.16" data-parsed="Gen_44_16_0_0" data-passage="Gen 44.16" id="Gen.44.16"/><sup>16</sup>And Judah said, What shall we say unto my lord? what shall we speak? or how shall we clear ourselves? God hath found out the iniquity of thy servants: behold, we are my lord's bondmen, both we, and he also in whose hand the cup is found. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.44.17" data-parsed="Gen_44_17_0_0" data-passage="Gen 44.17" id="Gen.44.17"/><sup>17</sup>And he said, Far be it from me that I should do so: the man in whose hand the cup is found, he shall be my bondman; but as for you, get you up in peace unto your father.</p>
<p id="Gen.44-p3">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.44.18" data-parsed="Gen_44_18_0_0" data-passage="Gen 44.18" id="Gen.44.18"/><sup>18</sup>Then Judah came near unto him, and said, Oh, my lord, let thy servant,
I pray thee, speak a word in my lord's ears, and let not thine anger burn against thy servant; for thou art even as Pharaoh. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.44.19" data-parsed="Gen_44_19_0_0" data-passage="Gen 44.19" id="Gen.44.19"/><sup>19</sup>My lord asked his servants, saying, Have ye a father, or a brother? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.44.20" data-parsed="Gen_44_20_0_0" data-passage="Gen 44.20" id="Gen.44.20"/><sup>20</sup>And we said unto my lord, We have a father, an old man, and a child of his old age, a little one;
and his brother is dead, and he alone is left of his mother; and his father loveth him. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.44.21" data-parsed="Gen_44_21_0_0" data-passage="Gen 44.21" id="Gen.44.21"/><sup>21</sup>And thou saidst unto thy servants, Bring him down unto me,
that I may set mine eyes upon him. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.44.22" data-parsed="Gen_44_22_0_0" data-passage="Gen 44.22" id="Gen.44.22"/><sup>22</sup>And we said unto my lord, The lad cannot leave his father: for if he should leave his father, his father would die. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.44.23" data-parsed="Gen_44_23_0_0" data-passage="Gen 44.23" id="Gen.44.23"/><sup>23</sup>And thou saidst unto thy servants, Except your youngest brother come down with you, ye shall see my face no more. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.44.24" data-parsed="Gen_44_24_0_0" data-passage="Gen 44.24" id="Gen.44.24"/><sup>24</sup>And it came to pass when we came up unto thy servant my father, we told him the words of my lord.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.44.25" data-parsed="Gen_44_25_0_0" data-passage="Gen 44.25" id="Gen.44.25"/><sup>25</sup>And our father said, Go again, buy us a little food. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.44.26" data-parsed="Gen_44_26_0_0" data-passage="Gen 44.26" id="Gen.44.26"/><sup>26</sup>And we said,
We cannot go down: if our youngest brother be with us, then will we go down:
for we may not see the man's face, expect our youngest brother be with us.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.44.27" data-parsed="Gen_44_27_0_0" data-passage="Gen 44.27" id="Gen.44.27"/><sup>27</sup>And thy servant my father said unto us, Ye know that my wife bare me two sons: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.44.28" data-parsed="Gen_44_28_0_0" data-passage="Gen 44.28" id="Gen.44.28"/><sup>28</sup>and the one went out from me, and I said, Surely he is torn in pieces; and I have not seen him since: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.44.29" data-parsed="Gen_44_29_0_0" data-passage="Gen 44.29" id="Gen.44.29"/><sup>29</sup>and if ye take this one also from me, and harm befall him, ye will bring down my gray hairs with sorrow to Sheol. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.44.30" data-parsed="Gen_44_30_0_0" data-passage="Gen 44.30" id="Gen.44.30"/><sup>30</sup>Now therefore when I come to thy servant my father, and the lad is not with us; seeing that his life is bound up in the lad's life; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.44.31" data-parsed="Gen_44_31_0_0" data-passage="Gen 44.31" id="Gen.44.31"/><sup>31</sup>it will come to pass, when he seeth that the lad is not <i>with us</i>, that he will die: and thy servants will bring down the gray hairs of thy servant our father with sorrow to Sheol. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.44.32" data-parsed="Gen_44_32_0_0" data-passage="Gen 44.32" id="Gen.44.32"/><sup>32</sup>For thy servant became surety for the lad unto my father, saying, If I bring him not unto thee, then shall I bear the blame to my father for ever. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.44.33" data-parsed="Gen_44_33_0_0" data-passage="Gen 44.33" id="Gen.44.33"/><sup>33</sup>Now therefore, let thy servant, I pray thee, abide instead of the lad a bondman to my lord; and let the lad go up with his brethren. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.44.34" data-parsed="Gen_44_34_0_0" data-passage="Gen 44.34" id="Gen.44.34"/><sup>34</sup>For how shall I go up to my father, if the lad be not with me? lest I see the evil that shall come on my father.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>