<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Genesis 48</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Genesis 48</span></div><div data-next="Gen.49" data-prev="Gen.47" data-progress="5.49%" data-shorttitle="" id="Gen.48" title="Genesis 48">
<h2 id="Gen.48-p0.1">48</h2>
<p id="Gen.48-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.48.1" data-parsed="Gen_48_1_0_0" data-passage="Gen 48.1" id="Gen.48.1"/><sup>1</sup>And it came to pass after these things, that one said to Joseph,
Behold, thy father is sick: and he took with him his two sons, Manasseh and Ephraim. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.48.2" data-parsed="Gen_48_2_0_0" data-passage="Gen 48.2" id="Gen.48.2"/><sup>2</sup>And one told Jacob, and said, Behold, thy son Joseph cometh unto thee: and Israel strengthened himself, and sat upon the bed. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.48.3" data-parsed="Gen_48_3_0_0" data-passage="Gen 48.3" id="Gen.48.3"/><sup>3</sup>And Jacob said unto Joseph, God Almighty appeared unto me at Luz in the land of Canaan, and blessed me, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.48.4" data-parsed="Gen_48_4_0_0" data-passage="Gen 48.4" id="Gen.48.4"/><sup>4</sup>and said unto me, Behold, I will make thee fruitful, and multiply thee, and I will make of thee a company of peoples,
and will give this land to thy seed after thee for an everlasting possession.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.48.5" data-parsed="Gen_48_5_0_0" data-passage="Gen 48.5" id="Gen.48.5"/><sup>5</sup>And now thy two sons, who were born unto thee in the land of Egypt before I came unto thee into Egypt, are mine; Ephraim and Manasseh, even as Reuben and Simeon, shall be mine. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.48.6" data-parsed="Gen_48_6_0_0" data-passage="Gen 48.6" id="Gen.48.6"/><sup>6</sup>And thy issue, that thou begettest after them, shall be thine; they shall be called after the name of their brethren in their inheritance. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.48.7" data-parsed="Gen_48_7_0_0" data-passage="Gen 48.7" id="Gen.48.7"/><sup>7</sup>And as for me, when I came from Paddan,
Rachel died by me in the land of Canaan in the way, when there was still some distance to come unto Ephrath: and I buried her there in the way to Ephrath
(the same is Beth-lehem).</p>
<p id="Gen.48-p2">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.48.8" data-parsed="Gen_48_8_0_0" data-passage="Gen 48.8" id="Gen.48.8"/><sup>8</sup>And Israel beheld Joseph's sons, and said, Who are these? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.48.9" data-parsed="Gen_48_9_0_0" data-passage="Gen 48.9" id="Gen.48.9"/><sup>9</sup>And Joseph said unto his father, They are my sons, whom God hath given me here.
And he said, Bring them, I pray thee, unto me, and I will bless them.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.48.10" data-parsed="Gen_48_10_0_0" data-passage="Gen 48.10" id="Gen.48.10"/><sup>10</sup>Now the eyes of Israel were dim for age, so that he could not see. And he brought them near unto him; and he kissed them, and embraced them.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.48.11" data-parsed="Gen_48_11_0_0" data-passage="Gen 48.11" id="Gen.48.11"/><sup>11</sup>And Israel said unto Joseph, I had not thought to see thy face: and,
lo, God hath let me see thy seed also. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.48.12" data-parsed="Gen_48_12_0_0" data-passage="Gen 48.12" id="Gen.48.12"/><sup>12</sup>And Joseph brought them out from between his knees; and he bowed himself with his face to the earth. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.48.13" data-parsed="Gen_48_13_0_0" data-passage="Gen 48.13" id="Gen.48.13"/><sup>13</sup>And Joseph took them both, Ephraim in his right hand toward Israel's left hand,
and Manasseh in his left hand toward Israel's right hand, and brought them near unto him. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.48.14" data-parsed="Gen_48_14_0_0" data-passage="Gen 48.14" id="Gen.48.14"/><sup>14</sup>And Israel stretched out his right hand, and laid it upon Ephraim's head, who was the younger, and his left hand upon Manasseh's head, guiding his hands wittingly; for Manasseh was the first-born. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.48.15" data-parsed="Gen_48_15_0_0" data-passage="Gen 48.15" id="Gen.48.15"/><sup>15</sup>And he blessed Joseph, and said, The God before whom my fathers Abraham and Isaac did walk, the God who hath fed me all my life long unto this day, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.48.16" data-parsed="Gen_48_16_0_0" data-passage="Gen 48.16" id="Gen.48.16"/><sup>16</sup>the angel who hath redeemed me from all evil, bless the lads; and let my name be named on them, and the name of my fathers Abraham and Isaac; and let them grow into a multitude in the midst of the earth. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.48.17" data-parsed="Gen_48_17_0_0" data-passage="Gen 48.17" id="Gen.48.17"/><sup>17</sup>And when Joseph saw that his father laid his right hand upon the head of Ephraim, it displeased him: and he held up his father's hand, to remove it from Ephraim's head unto Manasseh's head. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.48.18" data-parsed="Gen_48_18_0_0" data-passage="Gen 48.18" id="Gen.48.18"/><sup>18</sup>And Joseph said unto his father, Not so, my father;
for this is the first-born; put thy right hand upon his head. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.48.19" data-parsed="Gen_48_19_0_0" data-passage="Gen 48.19" id="Gen.48.19"/><sup>19</sup>And his father refused, and said, I know <i>it</i>, my son, I know <i>it</i>. He also shall become a people, and he also shall be great: howbeit his younger brother shall be greater than he, and his seed shall become a multitude of nations. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.48.20" data-parsed="Gen_48_20_0_0" data-passage="Gen 48.20" id="Gen.48.20"/><sup>20</sup>And he blessed them that day, saying, In thee will Israel bless, saying, God make thee as Ephraim and as Manasseh: and he set Ephraim before Manasseh. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.48.21" data-parsed="Gen_48_21_0_0" data-passage="Gen 48.21" id="Gen.48.21"/><sup>21</sup>And Israel said unto Joseph, Behold, I die: but God will be with you, and bring you again unto the land of your fathers.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.48.22" data-parsed="Gen_48_22_0_0" data-passage="Gen 48.22" id="Gen.48.22"/><sup>22</sup>Moreover I have given to thee one portion above thy brethren, which I took out of the hand of the Amorite with my sword and with my bow.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>