<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Genesis 46</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Genesis 46</span></div><div data-next="Gen.47" data-prev="Gen.45" data-progress="5.28%" data-shorttitle="" id="Gen.46" title="Genesis 46">
<h2 id="Gen.46-p0.1">46</h2>
<p id="Gen.46-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.46.1" data-parsed="Gen_46_1_0_0" data-passage="Gen 46.1" id="Gen.46.1"/><sup>1</sup>And Israel took his journey with all that he had, and came to Beer-sheba, and offered sacrifices unto the God of his father Isaac. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.46.2" data-parsed="Gen_46_2_0_0" data-passage="Gen 46.2" id="Gen.46.2"/><sup>2</sup>And God spake unto Israel in the visions of the night, and said, Jacob, Jacob.
And he said, Here am I. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.46.3" data-parsed="Gen_46_3_0_0" data-passage="Gen 46.3" id="Gen.46.3"/><sup>3</sup>And he said, I am God, the God of thy father:
fear not to go down into Egypt; for I will there make of thee a great nation:

<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.46.4" data-parsed="Gen_46_4_0_0" data-passage="Gen 46.4" id="Gen.46.4"/><sup>4</sup>I will go down with thee into Egypt; and I will also surely bring thee up again: and Joseph shall put his hand upon thine eyes. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.46.5" data-parsed="Gen_46_5_0_0" data-passage="Gen 46.5" id="Gen.46.5"/><sup>5</sup>And Jacob rose up from Beer-sheba: and the sons of Israel carried Jacob their father, and their little ones, and their wives, in the wagons which Pharaoh had sent to carry him. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.46.6" data-parsed="Gen_46_6_0_0" data-passage="Gen 46.6" id="Gen.46.6"/><sup>6</sup>And they took their cattle, and their goods, which they had gotten in the land of Canaan, and came into Egypt, Jacob, and all his seed with him: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.46.7" data-parsed="Gen_46_7_0_0" data-passage="Gen 46.7" id="Gen.46.7"/><sup>7</sup>his sons, and his sons' sons with him, his daughters, and his sons's daughters, and all his seed brought he with him into Egypt.</p>
<p id="Gen.46-p2">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.46.8" data-parsed="Gen_46_8_0_0" data-passage="Gen 46.8" id="Gen.46.8"/><sup>8</sup>And these are the names of the children of Israel, who came into Egypt,
Jacob and his sons: Reuben, Jacob's first-born. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.46.9" data-parsed="Gen_46_9_0_0" data-passage="Gen 46.9" id="Gen.46.9"/><sup>9</sup>And the sons of Reuben:
Hanoch, and Pallu, and Hezron, and Carmi. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.46.10" data-parsed="Gen_46_10_0_0" data-passage="Gen 46.10" id="Gen.46.10"/><sup>10</sup>And the sons of Simeon:
Jemuel, and Jamin, and Ohad, and Jachin, and Zohar, and Shaul the son of a Canaanitish woman. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.46.11" data-parsed="Gen_46_11_0_0" data-passage="Gen 46.11" id="Gen.46.11"/><sup>11</sup>And the sons of Levi: Gershon, Kohath, and Merari.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.46.12" data-parsed="Gen_46_12_0_0" data-passage="Gen 46.12" id="Gen.46.12"/><sup>12</sup>And the sons of Judah: Er, and Onan, and Shelah, and Perez, and Zerah;
but Er and Onan died in the land of Canaan. And the sons of Perez were Hezron and Hamul. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.46.13" data-parsed="Gen_46_13_0_0" data-passage="Gen 46.13" id="Gen.46.13"/><sup>13</sup>And the sons of Issachar: Tola, and Puvah, and Iob, and Shimron. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.46.14" data-parsed="Gen_46_14_0_0" data-passage="Gen 46.14" id="Gen.46.14"/><sup>14</sup>And the sons of Zebulun: Sered, and Elon, and Jahleel.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.46.15" data-parsed="Gen_46_15_0_0" data-passage="Gen 46.15" id="Gen.46.15"/><sup>15</sup>These are the sons of Leah, whom she bare unto Jacob in Paddan-aram,
with his daughter Dinah: all the souls of his sons and his daughters were thirty and three. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.46.16" data-parsed="Gen_46_16_0_0" data-passage="Gen 46.16" id="Gen.46.16"/><sup>16</sup>And the sons of Gad: Ziphion, and Haggi, Shuni, and Ezbon, Eri, and Arodi, and Areli. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.46.17" data-parsed="Gen_46_17_0_0" data-passage="Gen 46.17" id="Gen.46.17"/><sup>17</sup>And the sons of Asher: Imnah, and Ishvah, and Ishvi, and Beriah, and Serah their sister; and the sons of Beriah: Heber, and Malchiel. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.46.18" data-parsed="Gen_46_18_0_0" data-passage="Gen 46.18" id="Gen.46.18"/><sup>18</sup>These are the sons of Zilpah, whom Laban gave to Leah his daughter; and these she bare unto Jacob, even sixteen souls.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.46.19" data-parsed="Gen_46_19_0_0" data-passage="Gen 46.19" id="Gen.46.19"/><sup>19</sup>The sons of Rachel Jacob's wife: Joseph and Benjamin. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.46.20" data-parsed="Gen_46_20_0_0" data-passage="Gen 46.20" id="Gen.46.20"/><sup>20</sup>And unto Joseph in the land of Egypt were born Manasseh and Ephraim, whom Asenath, the daughter of Poti-phera priest of On, bare unto him. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.46.21" data-parsed="Gen_46_21_0_0" data-passage="Gen 46.21" id="Gen.46.21"/><sup>21</sup>And the sons of Benjamin: Bela, and Becher, and Ashbel, Gera, and Naaman, Ehi, and Rosh,
Muppim, and Huppim, and Ard. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.46.22" data-parsed="Gen_46_22_0_0" data-passage="Gen 46.22" id="Gen.46.22"/><sup>22</sup>These are the sons of Rachel, who were born to Jacob: all the souls were fourteen. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.46.23" data-parsed="Gen_46_23_0_0" data-passage="Gen 46.23" id="Gen.46.23"/><sup>23</sup>And the sons of Dan:
Hushim. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.46.24" data-parsed="Gen_46_24_0_0" data-passage="Gen 46.24" id="Gen.46.24"/><sup>24</sup>And the sons of Naphtali: Jahzeel, and Guni, and Jezer, and Shillem. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.46.25" data-parsed="Gen_46_25_0_0" data-passage="Gen 46.25" id="Gen.46.25"/><sup>25</sup>These are the sons of Bilhah, whom Laban gave unto Rachel his daughter, and these she bare unto Jacob: all the souls were seven. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.46.26" data-parsed="Gen_46_26_0_0" data-passage="Gen 46.26" id="Gen.46.26"/><sup>26</sup>All the souls that came with Jacob into Egypt, that came out of his loins,
besides Jacob's sons' wives, all the souls were threescore and six; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.46.27" data-parsed="Gen_46_27_0_0" data-passage="Gen 46.27" id="Gen.46.27"/><sup>27</sup>and the sons of Joseph, who were born to him in Egypt, were two souls: all the souls of the house of Jacob, that came into Egypt, were threescore and ten.</p>
<p id="Gen.46-p3">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.46.28" data-parsed="Gen_46_28_0_0" data-passage="Gen 46.28" id="Gen.46.28"/><sup>28</sup>And he sent Judah before him unto Joseph, to show the way before him unto Goshen; and they came into the land of Goshen. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.46.29" data-parsed="Gen_46_29_0_0" data-passage="Gen 46.29" id="Gen.46.29"/><sup>29</sup>And Joseph made ready his chariot, and went up to meet Israel his father, to Goshen; and he presented himself unto him, and fell on his neck, and wept on his neck a good while. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.46.30" data-parsed="Gen_46_30_0_0" data-passage="Gen 46.30" id="Gen.46.30"/><sup>30</sup>And Israel said unto Joseph, Now let me die, since I have seen thy face, that thou art yet alive. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.46.31" data-parsed="Gen_46_31_0_0" data-passage="Gen 46.31" id="Gen.46.31"/><sup>31</sup>And Joseph said unto his brethren,
and unto his father's house, I will go up, and tell Pharaoh, and will say unto him, My brethren, and my father's house, who were in the land of Canaan,
are come unto me; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.46.32" data-parsed="Gen_46_32_0_0" data-passage="Gen 46.32" id="Gen.46.32"/><sup>32</sup>and the men are shepherds, for they have been keepers of cattle; and they have brought their flocks, and their herds, and all that they have. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.46.33" data-parsed="Gen_46_33_0_0" data-passage="Gen 46.33" id="Gen.46.33"/><sup>33</sup>And it shall come to pass, when Pharaoh shall call you, and shall say, What is your occupation? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.46.34" data-parsed="Gen_46_34_0_0" data-passage="Gen 46.34" id="Gen.46.34"/><sup>34</sup>that ye shall say, Thy servants have been keepers of cattle from our youth even until now, both we, and our fathers: that ye may dwell in the land of Goshen; for every shepherd is an abomination unto the Egyptians.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>