<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Genesis 4</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Genesis 4</span></div><div data-next="Gen.5" data-prev="Gen.3" data-progress="1.32%" data-shorttitle="" id="Gen.4" title="Genesis 4">
<h2 id="Gen.4-p0.1">4</h2>
<p id="Gen.4-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.4.1" data-parsed="Gen_4_1_0_0" data-passage="Gen 4.1" id="Gen.4.1"/><sup>1</sup>And the man knew Eve his wife; and she conceived, and bare Cain, and said, I have gotten a man with <i>the help of</i> Jehovah. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.4.2" data-parsed="Gen_4_2_0_0" data-passage="Gen 4.2" id="Gen.4.2"/><sup>2</sup>And again she bare his brother Abel. And Abel was a keeper of sheep, but Cain was a tiller of the ground. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.4.3" data-parsed="Gen_4_3_0_0" data-passage="Gen 4.3" id="Gen.4.3"/><sup>3</sup>And in process of time it came to pass, that Cain brought of the fruit of the ground an offering unto Jehovah. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.4.4" data-parsed="Gen_4_4_0_0" data-passage="Gen 4.4" id="Gen.4.4"/><sup>4</sup>And Abel,
he also brought of the firstlings of his flock and of the fat thereof. And Jehovah had respect unto Abel and to his offering: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.4.5" data-parsed="Gen_4_5_0_0" data-passage="Gen 4.5" id="Gen.4.5"/><sup>5</sup>but unto Cain and to his offering he had not respect. And Cain was very wroth, and his countenance fell. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.4.6" data-parsed="Gen_4_6_0_0" data-passage="Gen 4.6" id="Gen.4.6"/><sup>6</sup>And Jehovah said unto Cain, Why art thou wroth? and why is thy countenance fallen? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.4.7" data-parsed="Gen_4_7_0_0" data-passage="Gen 4.7" id="Gen.4.7"/><sup>7</sup>If thou doest well, shall it not be lifted up? and if thou doest not well, sin coucheth at the door: and unto thee shall be its desire, but do thou rule over it. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.4.8" data-parsed="Gen_4_8_0_0" data-passage="Gen 4.8" id="Gen.4.8"/><sup>8</sup>And Cain told Abel his brother. And it came to pass, when they were in the field, that Cain rose up against Abel his brother, and slew him.</p>
<p id="Gen.4-p2">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.4.9" data-parsed="Gen_4_9_0_0" data-passage="Gen 4.9" id="Gen.4.9"/><sup>9</sup>And Jehovah said unto Cain, Where is Abel thy brother? And he said, I know not: am I my brother's keeper? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.4.10" data-parsed="Gen_4_10_0_0" data-passage="Gen 4.10" id="Gen.4.10"/><sup>10</sup>And he said, What hast thou done?
the voice of thy brother's blood crieth unto me from the ground. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.4.11" data-parsed="Gen_4_11_0_0" data-passage="Gen 4.11" id="Gen.4.11"/><sup>11</sup>And now cursed art thou from the ground, which hath opened its mouth to receive thy brother's blood from thy hand; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.4.12" data-parsed="Gen_4_12_0_0" data-passage="Gen 4.12" id="Gen.4.12"/><sup>12</sup>when thou tillest the ground, it shall not henceforth yield unto thee its strength; a fugitive and a wanderer shalt thou be in the earth. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.4.13" data-parsed="Gen_4_13_0_0" data-passage="Gen 4.13" id="Gen.4.13"/><sup>13</sup>And Cain said unto Jehovah, My punishment is greater than I can bear. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.4.14" data-parsed="Gen_4_14_0_0" data-passage="Gen 4.14" id="Gen.4.14"/><sup>14</sup>Behold, thou hast driven me out this day from the face of the ground; and from thy face shall I be hid; and I shall be a fugitive and a wanderer in the earth; and it will come to pass, that whosoever findeth me will slay me. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.4.15" data-parsed="Gen_4_15_0_0" data-passage="Gen 4.15" id="Gen.4.15"/><sup>15</sup>And Jehovah said unto him, Therefore whosoever slayeth Cain, vengeance shall be taken on him sevenfold. And Jehovah appointed a sign for Cain, lest any finding him should smite him.</p>
<p id="Gen.4-p3">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.4.16" data-parsed="Gen_4_16_0_0" data-passage="Gen 4.16" id="Gen.4.16"/><sup>16</sup>And Cain went out from the presence of Jehovah, and dwelt in the land of Nod, on the east of Eden. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.4.17" data-parsed="Gen_4_17_0_0" data-passage="Gen 4.17" id="Gen.4.17"/><sup>17</sup>And Cain knew his wife; and she conceived,
and bare Enoch: and he builded a city, and called the name of the city, after the name of his son, Enoch. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.4.18" data-parsed="Gen_4_18_0_0" data-passage="Gen 4.18" id="Gen.4.18"/><sup>18</sup>And unto Enoch was born Irad: and Irad begat Mehujael: and Mehujael begat Methushael; and Methushael begat Lamech.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.4.19" data-parsed="Gen_4_19_0_0" data-passage="Gen 4.19" id="Gen.4.19"/><sup>19</sup>And Lamech took unto him two wives: the name of the one was Adah, and the name of the other Zillah. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.4.20" data-parsed="Gen_4_20_0_0" data-passage="Gen 4.20" id="Gen.4.20"/><sup>20</sup>And Adah bare Jabal: he was the father of such as dwell in tents and <i>have</i> cattle. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.4.21" data-parsed="Gen_4_21_0_0" data-passage="Gen 4.21" id="Gen.4.21"/><sup>21</sup>And his brother's name was Jubal: he was the father of all such as handle the harp and pipe.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.4.22" data-parsed="Gen_4_22_0_0" data-passage="Gen 4.22" id="Gen.4.22"/><sup>22</sup>And Zillah, she also bare Tubal-cain, the forger of every cutting instrument of brass and iron: and the sister of Tubal-cain was Naamah.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.4.23" data-parsed="Gen_4_23_0_0" data-passage="Gen 4.23" id="Gen.4.23"/><sup>23</sup>And Lamech said unto his wives:</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Gen.4-p4">
Adah and Zillah, hear my voice;</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Gen.4-p5">
Ye wives of Lamech, hearken unto my speech:</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Gen.4-p6">
For I have slain a man for wounding me,</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Gen.4-p7">
And a young man for bruising me:</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Gen.4-p8">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.4.24" data-parsed="Gen_4_24_0_0" data-passage="Gen 4.24" id="Gen.4.24"/><sup>24</sup>If Cain shall be avenged sevenfold,</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Gen.4-p9">
Truly Lamech seventy and sevenfold.</p>
<p id="Gen.4-p10">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.4.25" data-parsed="Gen_4_25_0_0" data-passage="Gen 4.25" id="Gen.4.25"/><sup>25</sup>And Adam knew his wife again; and she bare a son, and called his name Seth. For, <i>said she</i>, God hath appointed me another seed instead of Abel; for Cain slew him. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.4.26" data-parsed="Gen_4_26_0_0" data-passage="Gen 4.26" id="Gen.4.26"/><sup>26</sup>And to Seth, to him also there was born a son;
and he called his name Enosh. Then began men to call upon the name of Jehovah.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>