<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Genesis 50</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Genesis 50</span></div><div data-next="Exod" data-prev="Gen.49" data-progress="5.67%" data-shorttitle="" id="Gen.50" title="Genesis 50">
<h2 id="Gen.50-p0.1">50</h2>
<p id="Gen.50-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.50.1" data-parsed="Gen_50_1_0_0" data-passage="Gen 50.1" id="Gen.50.1"/><sup>1</sup>And Joseph fell upon his father's face, and wept upon him, and kissed him. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.50.2" data-parsed="Gen_50_2_0_0" data-passage="Gen 50.2" id="Gen.50.2"/><sup>2</sup>And Joseph commanded his servants the physicians to embalm his father: and the physicians embalmed Israel. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.50.3" data-parsed="Gen_50_3_0_0" data-passage="Gen 50.3" id="Gen.50.3"/><sup>3</sup>And forty days were fulfilled for him; for so are fulfilled the days of embalming: and the Egyptians wept for him three-score and ten days.</p>
<p id="Gen.50-p2">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.50.4" data-parsed="Gen_50_4_0_0" data-passage="Gen 50.4" id="Gen.50.4"/><sup>4</sup>And when the days of weeping for him were past, Joseph spake unto the house of Pharaoh, saying, If now I have found favor in your eyes, speak, I pray you, in the ears of Pharaoh, saying, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.50.5" data-parsed="Gen_50_5_0_0" data-passage="Gen 50.5" id="Gen.50.5"/><sup>5</sup>My father made me swear,
saying, Lo, I die: in my grave which I have digged for me in the land of Canaan, there shalt thou bury me. Now therefore let me go up, I pray thee,
and bury my father, and I will come again. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.50.6" data-parsed="Gen_50_6_0_0" data-passage="Gen 50.6" id="Gen.50.6"/><sup>6</sup>And Pharaoh said, Go up, and bury thy father, according as he made thee swear. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.50.7" data-parsed="Gen_50_7_0_0" data-passage="Gen 50.7" id="Gen.50.7"/><sup>7</sup>And Joseph went up to bury his father; and with him went up all the servants of Pharaoh, the elders of his house, and all the elders of the land of Egypt, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.50.8" data-parsed="Gen_50_8_0_0" data-passage="Gen 50.8" id="Gen.50.8"/><sup>8</sup>and all the house of Joseph, and his brethren, and his father's house: only their little ones,
and their flocks, and their herds, they left in the land of Goshen. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.50.9" data-parsed="Gen_50_9_0_0" data-passage="Gen 50.9" id="Gen.50.9"/><sup>9</sup>And there went up with him both chariots and horsemen: and it was a very great company. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.50.10" data-parsed="Gen_50_10_0_0" data-passage="Gen 50.10" id="Gen.50.10"/><sup>10</sup>And they came to the threshing-floor of Atad, which is beyond the Jordan, and there they lamented with a very great and sore lamentation:
and he made a mourning for his father seven days. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.50.11" data-parsed="Gen_50_11_0_0" data-passage="Gen 50.11" id="Gen.50.11"/><sup>11</sup>And when the inhabitants of the land, the Canaanites, saw the mourning in the floor of Atad, they said, This is a grievous mourning to the Egyptians: wherefore the name of it was called Abel-mizraim, which is beyond the Jordan. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.50.12" data-parsed="Gen_50_12_0_0" data-passage="Gen 50.12" id="Gen.50.12"/><sup>12</sup>And his sons did unto him according as he commanded them: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.50.13" data-parsed="Gen_50_13_0_0" data-passage="Gen 50.13" id="Gen.50.13"/><sup>13</sup>for his sons carried him into the land of Canaan, and buried him in the cave of the field of Machpelah, which Abraham bought with the field, for a possession of a burying-place, of Ephron the Hittite, before Mamre. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.50.14" data-parsed="Gen_50_14_0_0" data-passage="Gen 50.14" id="Gen.50.14"/><sup>14</sup>And Joseph returned into Egypt, he, and his brethren, and all that went up with him to bury his father, after he had buried his father.</p>
<p id="Gen.50-p3">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.50.15" data-parsed="Gen_50_15_0_0" data-passage="Gen 50.15" id="Gen.50.15"/><sup>15</sup>And when Joseph's brethren saw that their father was dead, they said,
It may be that Joseph will hate us, and will fully requite us all the evil which we did unto him. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.50.16" data-parsed="Gen_50_16_0_0" data-passage="Gen 50.16" id="Gen.50.16"/><sup>16</sup>And they sent a message unto Joseph, saying, Thy father did command before he died, saying, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.50.17" data-parsed="Gen_50_17_0_0" data-passage="Gen 50.17" id="Gen.50.17"/><sup>17</sup>So shall ye say unto Joseph,
Forgive, I pray thee now, the transgression of thy brethren, and their sin,
for that they did unto thee evil. And now, we pray thee, forgive the transgression of the servants of the God of thy father. And Joseph wept when they spake unto him. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.50.18" data-parsed="Gen_50_18_0_0" data-passage="Gen 50.18" id="Gen.50.18"/><sup>18</sup>And his brethren also went and fell down before his face; and they said, Behold, we are thy servants. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.50.19" data-parsed="Gen_50_19_0_0" data-passage="Gen 50.19" id="Gen.50.19"/><sup>19</sup>And Joseph said unto them, Fear not: for am I in the place of God? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.50.20" data-parsed="Gen_50_20_0_0" data-passage="Gen 50.20" id="Gen.50.20"/><sup>20</sup>And as for you, ye meant evil against me; but God meant it for good, to bring to pass, as it is this day, to save much people alive. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.50.21" data-parsed="Gen_50_21_0_0" data-passage="Gen 50.21" id="Gen.50.21"/><sup>21</sup>Now therefore fear ye not: I will nourish you, and your little ones. And he comforted them, and spake kindly unto them.</p>
<p id="Gen.50-p4">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.50.22" data-parsed="Gen_50_22_0_0" data-passage="Gen 50.22" id="Gen.50.22"/><sup>22</sup>And Joseph dwelt in Egypt, he, and his father's house: and Joseph lived a hundred and ten years. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.50.23" data-parsed="Gen_50_23_0_0" data-passage="Gen 50.23" id="Gen.50.23"/><sup>23</sup>And Joseph saw Ephraim's children of the third generation: the children also of Machir the son of Manasseh were born upon Joseph's knees. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.50.24" data-parsed="Gen_50_24_0_0" data-passage="Gen 50.24" id="Gen.50.24"/><sup>24</sup>And Joseph said unto his brethren, I die; but God will surely visit you, and bring you up out of this land unto the land which he sware to Abraham, to Isaac, and to Jacob. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.50.25" data-parsed="Gen_50_25_0_0" data-passage="Gen 50.25" id="Gen.50.25"/><sup>25</sup>And Joseph took an oath of the children of Israel, saying, God will surely visit you, and ye shall carry up my bones from hence. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.50.26" data-parsed="Gen_50_26_0_0" data-passage="Gen 50.26" id="Gen.50.26"/><sup>26</sup>So Joseph died, being a hundred and ten years old: and they embalmed him, and he was put in a coffin in Egypt.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>