<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Genesis 9</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Genesis 9</span></div><div data-next="Gen.10" data-prev="Gen.8" data-progress="1.67%" data-shorttitle="" id="Gen.9" title="Genesis 9">
<h2 id="Gen.9-p0.1">9</h2>
<p id="Gen.9-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.9.1" data-parsed="Gen_9_1_0_0" data-passage="Gen 9.1" id="Gen.9.1"/><sup>1</sup>And God blessed Noah and his sons, and said unto them, Be fruitful,
and multiply, and replenish the earth. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.9.2" data-parsed="Gen_9_2_0_0" data-passage="Gen 9.2" id="Gen.9.2"/><sup>2</sup>And the fear of you and the dread of you shall be upon every beast of the earth, and upon every bird of the heavens; With all wherewith the ground teemeth, and all the fishes of the sea, into your hand are they delivered. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.9.3" data-parsed="Gen_9_3_0_0" data-passage="Gen 9.3" id="Gen.9.3"/><sup>3</sup>Every moving thing that liveth shall be food for you; As the green herb have I given you all. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.9.4" data-parsed="Gen_9_4_0_0" data-passage="Gen 9.4" id="Gen.9.4"/><sup>4</sup>But flesh with the life thereof, <i>which is</i> the blood thereof, shall ye not eat.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.9.5" data-parsed="Gen_9_5_0_0" data-passage="Gen 9.5" id="Gen.9.5"/><sup>5</sup>And surely your blood, <i>the blood</i> of your lives, will I require;
At the hand of every beast will I require it. And at the hand of man, even at the hand of every man's brother, will I require the life of man. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.9.6" data-parsed="Gen_9_6_0_0" data-passage="Gen 9.6" id="Gen.9.6"/><sup>6</sup>Whoso sheddeth man's blood, by man shall his blood be shed: For in the image of God made he man. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.9.7" data-parsed="Gen_9_7_0_0" data-passage="Gen 9.7" id="Gen.9.7"/><sup>7</sup>And you, be ye fruitful, and multiply; Bring forth abundantly in the earth, and multiply therein.</p>
<p id="Gen.9-p2">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.9.8" data-parsed="Gen_9_8_0_0" data-passage="Gen 9.8" id="Gen.9.8"/><sup>8</sup>And God spake unto Noah, and to his sons with him, saying, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.9.9" data-parsed="Gen_9_9_0_0" data-passage="Gen 9.9" id="Gen.9.9"/><sup>9</sup>And I,
behold, I establish my covenant with you, and with your seed after you;

<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.9.10" data-parsed="Gen_9_10_0_0" data-passage="Gen 9.10" id="Gen.9.10"/><sup>10</sup>and with every living creature that is with you, the birds, the cattle,
and every beast of the earth with you. Of all that go out of the ark, even every beast of the earth. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.9.11" data-parsed="Gen_9_11_0_0" data-passage="Gen 9.11" id="Gen.9.11"/><sup>11</sup>And I will establish my covenant with you;
neither shall all flesh be cut off any more by the waters of the flood;
neither shall there any more be a flood to destroy the earth. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.9.12" data-parsed="Gen_9_12_0_0" data-passage="Gen 9.12" id="Gen.9.12"/><sup>12</sup>And God said, This is the token of the covenant which I make between me and you and every living creature that is with you, for perpetual generations: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.9.13" data-parsed="Gen_9_13_0_0" data-passage="Gen 9.13" id="Gen.9.13"/><sup>13</sup>I do set my bow in the cloud, and it shall be for a token of a covenant between me and the earth. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.9.14" data-parsed="Gen_9_14_0_0" data-passage="Gen 9.14" id="Gen.9.14"/><sup>14</sup>And it shall come to pass, when I bring a cloud over the earth, that the bow shall be seen in the cloud, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.9.15" data-parsed="Gen_9_15_0_0" data-passage="Gen 9.15" id="Gen.9.15"/><sup>15</sup>and I will remember my covenant, which is between me and you and every living creature of all flesh;
and the waters shall no more become a flood to destroy all flesh. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.9.16" data-parsed="Gen_9_16_0_0" data-passage="Gen 9.16" id="Gen.9.16"/><sup>16</sup>And the bow shall be in the cloud; and I will look upon it, that I may remember the everlasting covenant between God and every living creature of all flesh that is upon the earth. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.9.17" data-parsed="Gen_9_17_0_0" data-passage="Gen 9.17" id="Gen.9.17"/><sup>17</sup>And God said unto Noah, This is the token of the covenant which I have established between me and all flesh that is upon the earth.</p>
<p id="Gen.9-p3">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.9.18" data-parsed="Gen_9_18_0_0" data-passage="Gen 9.18" id="Gen.9.18"/><sup>18</sup>And the sons of Noah, that went forth from the ark, were Shem, and Ham,
and Japheth: and Ham is the father of Canaan. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.9.19" data-parsed="Gen_9_19_0_0" data-passage="Gen 9.19" id="Gen.9.19"/><sup>19</sup>These three were the sons of Noah: and of these was the whole earth overspread.</p>
<p id="Gen.9-p4">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.9.20" data-parsed="Gen_9_20_0_0" data-passage="Gen 9.20" id="Gen.9.20"/><sup>20</sup>And Noah began to be a husbandman, and planted a vineyard: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.9.21" data-parsed="Gen_9_21_0_0" data-passage="Gen 9.21" id="Gen.9.21"/><sup>21</sup>and he drank of the wine, and was drunken. And he was uncovered within his tent.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.9.22" data-parsed="Gen_9_22_0_0" data-passage="Gen 9.22" id="Gen.9.22"/><sup>22</sup>And Ham, the father of Canaan, saw the nakedness of his father, and told his two brethren without. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.9.23" data-parsed="Gen_9_23_0_0" data-passage="Gen 9.23" id="Gen.9.23"/><sup>23</sup>And Shem and Japheth took a garment, and laid it upon both their shoulders, and went backward, and covered the nakedness of their father. And their faces were backward, and they saw not their father's nakedness. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.9.24" data-parsed="Gen_9_24_0_0" data-passage="Gen 9.24" id="Gen.9.24"/><sup>24</sup>And Noah awoke from his wine, and knew what his youngest son had done unto him. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.9.25" data-parsed="Gen_9_25_0_0" data-passage="Gen 9.25" id="Gen.9.25"/><sup>25</sup>And he said,</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Gen.9-p5">
Cursed be Canaan;</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Gen.9-p6">
A servant of servants shall he be unto his brethren.</p>
<p id="Gen.9-p7">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.9.26" data-parsed="Gen_9_26_0_0" data-passage="Gen 9.26" id="Gen.9.26"/><sup>26</sup>And he said,</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Gen.9-p8">
Blessed be Jehovah, the God of Shem;</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Gen.9-p9">
And let Canaan be his servant.</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Gen.9-p10">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.9.27" data-parsed="Gen_9_27_0_0" data-passage="Gen 9.27" id="Gen.9.27"/><sup>27</sup>God enlarge Japheth,</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Gen.9-p11">
And let him dwell in the tents of Shem;</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Gen.9-p12">
And let Canaan be his servant.</p>
<p id="Gen.9-p13">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.9.28" data-parsed="Gen_9_28_0_0" data-passage="Gen 9.28" id="Gen.9.28"/><sup>28</sup>And Noah lived after the flood three hundred and fifty years. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Gen.9.29" data-parsed="Gen_9_29_0_0" data-passage="Gen 9.29" id="Gen.9.29"/><sup>29</sup>And all the days of Noah were nine hundred and fifty years: And he died.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>