<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Hebrews 10</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Hebrews 10</span></div><div data-next="Heb.11" data-prev="Heb.9" data-progress="96.85%" data-shorttitle="" id="Heb.10" title="Hebrews 10">
<h2 id="Heb.10-p0.1">10</h2>
<p id="Heb.10-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Heb.10.1" data-parsed="Heb_10_1_0_0" data-passage="Heb 10.1" id="Heb.10.1"/><sup>1</sup>For the law having a shadow of the good <i>things</i> to come,
not the very image of the things, can never with the same sacrifices year by year, which they offer continually, make perfect them that draw nigh.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Heb.10.2" data-parsed="Heb_10_2_0_0" data-passage="Heb 10.2" id="Heb.10.2"/><sup>2</sup>Else would they not have ceased to be offered? because the worshippers,
having been once cleansed, would have had no more consciousness of sins.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Heb.10.3" data-parsed="Heb_10_3_0_0" data-passage="Heb 10.3" id="Heb.10.3"/><sup>3</sup>But in those <i>sacrifices</i> there is a remembrance made of sins year by year. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Heb.10.4" data-parsed="Heb_10_4_0_0" data-passage="Heb 10.4" id="Heb.10.4"/><sup>4</sup>For it is impossible that the blood of bulls and goats should take away sins. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Heb.10.5" data-parsed="Heb_10_5_0_0" data-passage="Heb 10.5" id="Heb.10.5"/><sup>5</sup>Wherefore when he cometh into the world, he saith,</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Heb.10-p2">
Sacrifice and offering thou wouldest not,</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Heb.10-p3">
But a body didst thou prepare for me;</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Heb.10-p4">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Heb.10.6" data-parsed="Heb_10_6_0_0" data-passage="Heb 10.6" id="Heb.10.6"/><sup>6</sup>In whole burnt offerings and <i>sacrifices</i> for sin thou hadst no pleasure:</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Heb.10-p5">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Heb.10.7" data-parsed="Heb_10_7_0_0" data-passage="Heb 10.7" id="Heb.10.7"/><sup>7</sup>Then said I, Lo, I am come (In the roll of the book it is written of me)</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Heb.10-p6">
To do thy will, O God.</p>
<p id="Heb.10-p7">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Heb.10.8" data-parsed="Heb_10_8_0_0" data-passage="Heb 10.8" id="Heb.10.8"/><sup>8</sup>Saying above, Sacrifices and offerings and whole burnt offerings and <i>sacrifices</i> for sin thou wouldest not, neither hadst pleasure therein
(the which are offered according to the law), 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Heb.10.9" data-parsed="Heb_10_9_0_0" data-passage="Heb 10.9" id="Heb.10.9"/><sup>9</sup>then hath he said, Lo, I am come to do thy will. He taketh away the first, that he may establish the second. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Heb.10.10" data-parsed="Heb_10_10_0_0" data-passage="Heb 10.10" id="Heb.10.10"/><sup>10</sup>By which will we have been sanctified through the offering of the body of Jesus Christ once for all. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Heb.10.11" data-parsed="Heb_10_11_0_0" data-passage="Heb 10.11" id="Heb.10.11"/><sup>11</sup>And every priest indeed standeth day by day ministering and offering oftentimes the same sacrifices, the which can never take away sins: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Heb.10.12" data-parsed="Heb_10_12_0_0" data-passage="Heb 10.12" id="Heb.10.12"/><sup>12</sup>but he, when he had offered one sacrifice for sins for ever, sat down on the right hand of God; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Heb.10.13" data-parsed="Heb_10_13_0_0" data-passage="Heb 10.13" id="Heb.10.13"/><sup>13</sup>henceforth expecting till his enemies be made the footstool of his feet. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Heb.10.14" data-parsed="Heb_10_14_0_0" data-passage="Heb 10.14" id="Heb.10.14"/><sup>14</sup>For by one offering he hath perfected for ever them that are sanctified. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Heb.10.15" data-parsed="Heb_10_15_0_0" data-passage="Heb 10.15" id="Heb.10.15"/><sup>15</sup>And the Holy Spirit also beareth witness to us; for after he hath said,</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Heb.10-p8">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Heb.10.16" data-parsed="Heb_10_16_0_0" data-passage="Heb 10.16" id="Heb.10.16"/><sup>16</sup>This is the covenant that I will make with them</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Heb.10-p9">
After those days, saith the Lord:</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Heb.10-p10">
I will put my laws on their heart,</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Heb.10-p11">
And upon their mind also will I write them;</p>
<p id="Heb.10-p12">
<i>then saith he,</i></p>
<p class="poetry" id="Heb.10-p13">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Heb.10.17" data-parsed="Heb_10_17_0_0" data-passage="Heb 10.17" id="Heb.10.17"/><sup>17</sup>And their sins and their iniquities will I remember no more.</p>
<p id="Heb.10-p14">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Heb.10.18" data-parsed="Heb_10_18_0_0" data-passage="Heb 10.18" id="Heb.10.18"/><sup>18</sup>Now where remission of these is, there is no more offering for sin.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Heb.10.19" data-parsed="Heb_10_19_0_0" data-passage="Heb 10.19" id="Heb.10.19"/><sup>19</sup>Having therefore, brethren, boldness to enter into the holy place by the blood of Jesus, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Heb.10.20" data-parsed="Heb_10_20_0_0" data-passage="Heb 10.20" id="Heb.10.20"/><sup>20</sup>by the way which he dedicated for us, a new and living way, through the veil, that is to say, his flesh; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Heb.10.21" data-parsed="Heb_10_21_0_0" data-passage="Heb 10.21" id="Heb.10.21"/><sup>21</sup>and <i>having</i> a great priest over the house of God; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Heb.10.22" data-parsed="Heb_10_22_0_0" data-passage="Heb 10.22" id="Heb.10.22"/><sup>22</sup>let us draw near with a true heart in fulness of faith, having our hearts sprinkled from an evil conscience: and having our body washed with pure water, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Heb.10.23" data-parsed="Heb_10_23_0_0" data-passage="Heb 10.23" id="Heb.10.23"/><sup>23</sup>let us hold fast the confession of our hope that it waver not; for he is faithful that promised: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Heb.10.24" data-parsed="Heb_10_24_0_0" data-passage="Heb 10.24" id="Heb.10.24"/><sup>24</sup>and let us consider one another to provoke unto love and good works; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Heb.10.25" data-parsed="Heb_10_25_0_0" data-passage="Heb 10.25" id="Heb.10.25"/><sup>25</sup>not forsaking our own assembling together, as the custom of some is, but exhorting <i>one another</i>; and so much the more, as ye see the day drawing nigh. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Heb.10.26" data-parsed="Heb_10_26_0_0" data-passage="Heb 10.26" id="Heb.10.26"/><sup>26</sup>For if we sin wilfully after that we have received the knowledge of the truth, there remaineth no more a sacrifice for sins, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Heb.10.27" data-parsed="Heb_10_27_0_0" data-passage="Heb 10.27" id="Heb.10.27"/><sup>27</sup>but a certain fearful expectation of judgment, and a fierceness of fire which shall devour the adversaries. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Heb.10.28" data-parsed="Heb_10_28_0_0" data-passage="Heb 10.28" id="Heb.10.28"/><sup>28</sup>A man that hath set at nought Moses law dieth without compassion on <i>the word of</i> two or three witnesses: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Heb.10.29" data-parsed="Heb_10_29_0_0" data-passage="Heb 10.29" id="Heb.10.29"/><sup>29</sup>of how much sorer punishment, think ye, shall he be judged worthy, who hath trodden under foot the Son of God, and hath counted the blood of the covenant wherewith he was sanctified an unholy thing, and hath done despite unto the Spirit of grace? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Heb.10.30" data-parsed="Heb_10_30_0_0" data-passage="Heb 10.30" id="Heb.10.30"/><sup>30</sup>For we know him that said,
Vengeance belongeth unto me, I will recompense. And again, The Lord shall judge his people. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Heb.10.31" data-parsed="Heb_10_31_0_0" data-passage="Heb 10.31" id="Heb.10.31"/><sup>31</sup>It is a fearful thing to fall into the hands of the living God. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Heb.10.32" data-parsed="Heb_10_32_0_0" data-passage="Heb 10.32" id="Heb.10.32"/><sup>32</sup>But call to remembrance the former days, in which, after ye were enlightened, ye endured a great conflict of sufferings; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Heb.10.33" data-parsed="Heb_10_33_0_0" data-passage="Heb 10.33" id="Heb.10.33"/><sup>33</sup>partly,
being made a gazingstock both by reproaches and afflictions; and partly,
becoming partakers with them that were so used. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Heb.10.34" data-parsed="Heb_10_34_0_0" data-passage="Heb 10.34" id="Heb.10.34"/><sup>34</sup>For ye both had compassion on them that were in bonds, and took joyfully the spoiling of your possessions, knowing that ye have for yourselves a better possession and an abiding one. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Heb.10.35" data-parsed="Heb_10_35_0_0" data-passage="Heb 10.35" id="Heb.10.35"/><sup>35</sup>Cast not away therefore your boldness, which hath great recompense of reward. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Heb.10.36" data-parsed="Heb_10_36_0_0" data-passage="Heb 10.36" id="Heb.10.36"/><sup>36</sup>For ye have need of patience, that, having done the will of God, ye may receive the promise.</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Heb.10-p15">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Heb.10.37" data-parsed="Heb_10_37_0_0" data-passage="Heb 10.37" id="Heb.10.37"/><sup>37</sup>For yet a very little while,</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Heb.10-p16">
He that cometh shall come, and shall not tarry.</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Heb.10-p17">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Heb.10.38" data-parsed="Heb_10_38_0_0" data-passage="Heb 10.38" id="Heb.10.38"/><sup>38</sup>But my righteous one shall live by faith:</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Heb.10-p18">
And if he shrink back, my soul hath no pleasure in him.</p>
<p id="Heb.10-p19">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Heb.10.39" data-parsed="Heb_10_39_0_0" data-passage="Heb 10.39" id="Heb.10.39"/><sup>39</sup>But we are not of them that shrink back unto perdition; but of them that have faith unto the saving of the soul.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>