<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Hebrews 13</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Hebrews 13</span></div><div data-next="Jas" data-prev="Heb.12" data-progress="97.16%" data-shorttitle="" id="Heb.13" title="Hebrews 13">
<h2 id="Heb.13-p0.1">13</h2>
<p id="Heb.13-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Heb.13.1" data-parsed="Heb_13_1_0_0" data-passage="Heb 13.1" id="Heb.13.1"/><sup>1</sup>Let love of the brethren continue. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Heb.13.2" data-parsed="Heb_13_2_0_0" data-passage="Heb 13.2" id="Heb.13.2"/><sup>2</sup>Forget not to show love unto strangers: for thereby some have entertained angels unawares.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Heb.13.3" data-parsed="Heb_13_3_0_0" data-passage="Heb 13.3" id="Heb.13.3"/><sup>3</sup>Remember them that are in bonds, as bound with them; them that are illtreated, as being yourselves also in the body. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Heb.13.4" data-parsed="Heb_13_4_0_0" data-passage="Heb 13.4" id="Heb.13.4"/><sup>4</sup><i>Let</i> marriage <i>be</i> had in honor among all, and <i>let</i> the bed <i>be</i>
undefiled: for fornicators and adulterers God will judge. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Heb.13.5" data-parsed="Heb_13_5_0_0" data-passage="Heb 13.5" id="Heb.13.5"/><sup>5</sup>Be ye free from the love of money; content with such things as ye have: for himself hath said, I will in no wise fail thee, neither will I in any wise forsake thee.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Heb.13.6" data-parsed="Heb_13_6_0_0" data-passage="Heb 13.6" id="Heb.13.6"/><sup>6</sup>So that with good courage we say,</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Heb.13-p2">
The Lord is my helper; I will not fear:</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Heb.13-p3">
What shall man do unto me?</p>
<p id="Heb.13-p4">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Heb.13.7" data-parsed="Heb_13_7_0_0" data-passage="Heb 13.7" id="Heb.13.7"/><sup>7</sup>Remember them that had the rule over you, men that spake unto you the word of God; and considering the issue of their life, imitate their faith.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Heb.13.8" data-parsed="Heb_13_8_0_0" data-passage="Heb 13.8" id="Heb.13.8"/><sup>8</sup>Jesus Christ <i>is</i> the same yesterday and to-day, <i>yea</i> and for ever. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Heb.13.9" data-parsed="Heb_13_9_0_0" data-passage="Heb 13.9" id="Heb.13.9"/><sup>9</sup>Be not carried away by divers and strange teachings: for it is good that the heart be established by grace; not by meats, wherein they that occupied themselves were not profited. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Heb.13.10" data-parsed="Heb_13_10_0_0" data-passage="Heb 13.10" id="Heb.13.10"/><sup>10</sup>We have an altar, whereof they have no right to eat that serve the tabernacle. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Heb.13.11" data-parsed="Heb_13_11_0_0" data-passage="Heb 13.11" id="Heb.13.11"/><sup>11</sup>For the bodies of those beasts whose blood is brought into the holy place by the high priest <i>as an offering</i> for sin, are burned without the camp. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Heb.13.12" data-parsed="Heb_13_12_0_0" data-passage="Heb 13.12" id="Heb.13.12"/><sup>12</sup>Wherefore Jesus also, that he might sanctify the people through his own blood, suffered without the gate. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Heb.13.13" data-parsed="Heb_13_13_0_0" data-passage="Heb 13.13" id="Heb.13.13"/><sup>13</sup>Let us therefore go forth unto him without the camp,
bearing his reproach. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Heb.13.14" data-parsed="Heb_13_14_0_0" data-passage="Heb 13.14" id="Heb.13.14"/><sup>14</sup>For we have not here an abiding city, but we seek after <i>the city</i> which is to come. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Heb.13.15" data-parsed="Heb_13_15_0_0" data-passage="Heb 13.15" id="Heb.13.15"/><sup>15</sup>Through him then let us offer up a sacrifice of praise to God continually, that is, the fruit of lips which make confession to his name. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Heb.13.16" data-parsed="Heb_13_16_0_0" data-passage="Heb 13.16" id="Heb.13.16"/><sup>16</sup>But to do good and to communicate forget not: for with such sacrifices God is well pleased. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Heb.13.17" data-parsed="Heb_13_17_0_0" data-passage="Heb 13.17" id="Heb.13.17"/><sup>17</sup>Obey them that have the rule over you, and submit <i>to them</i>: for they watch in behalf of your souls, as they that shall give account; that they may do this with joy,
and not with grief: for this <i>were</i> unprofitable for you. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Heb.13.18" data-parsed="Heb_13_18_0_0" data-passage="Heb 13.18" id="Heb.13.18"/><sup>18</sup>Pray for us: for we are persuaded that we have a good conscience, desiring to live honorably in all things. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Heb.13.19" data-parsed="Heb_13_19_0_0" data-passage="Heb 13.19" id="Heb.13.19"/><sup>19</sup>And I exhort <i>you</i> the more exceedingly to do this, that I may be restored to you the sooner. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Heb.13.20" data-parsed="Heb_13_20_0_0" data-passage="Heb 13.20" id="Heb.13.20"/><sup>20</sup>Now the God of peace, who brought again from the dead the great shepherd of the sheep with the blood of an eternal covenant, <i>even</i> our Lord Jesus, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Heb.13.21" data-parsed="Heb_13_21_0_0" data-passage="Heb 13.21" id="Heb.13.21"/><sup>21</sup>make you perfect in every good thing to do his will, working in us that which is well-pleasing in his sight, through Jesus Christ; to whom <i>be</i> the glory for ever and ever. Amen. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Heb.13.22" data-parsed="Heb_13_22_0_0" data-passage="Heb 13.22" id="Heb.13.22"/><sup>22</sup>But I exhort you, brethren, bear with the word of exhortation, for I have written unto you in few words. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Heb.13.23" data-parsed="Heb_13_23_0_0" data-passage="Heb 13.23" id="Heb.13.23"/><sup>23</sup>Know ye that our brother Timothy hath been set at liberty; with whom, if he come shortly, I will see you. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Heb.13.24" data-parsed="Heb_13_24_0_0" data-passage="Heb 13.24" id="Heb.13.24"/><sup>24</sup>Salute all them that have the rule over you,
and all the saints. They of Italy salute you. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Heb.13.25" data-parsed="Heb_13_25_0_0" data-passage="Heb 13.25" id="Heb.13.25"/><sup>25</sup>Grace be with you all.
Amen.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>