<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Hebrews 11</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Hebrews 11</span></div><div data-next="Heb.12" data-prev="Heb.10" data-progress="96.95%" data-shorttitle="" id="Heb.11" title="Hebrews 11">
<h2 id="Heb.11-p0.1">11</h2>
<p id="Heb.11-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Heb.11.1" data-parsed="Heb_11_1_0_0" data-passage="Heb 11.1" id="Heb.11.1"/><sup>1</sup>Now faith is assurance of <i>things</i> hoped for, a conviction of things not seen. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Heb.11.2" data-parsed="Heb_11_2_0_0" data-passage="Heb 11.2" id="Heb.11.2"/><sup>2</sup>For therein the elders had witness borne to them.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Heb.11.3" data-parsed="Heb_11_3_0_0" data-passage="Heb 11.3" id="Heb.11.3"/><sup>3</sup>By faith we understand that the worlds have been framed by the word of God, so that what is seen hath not been made out of things which appear.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Heb.11.4" data-parsed="Heb_11_4_0_0" data-passage="Heb 11.4" id="Heb.11.4"/><sup>4</sup>By faith Abel offered unto God a more excellent sacrifice than Cain,
through which he had witness borne to him that he was righteous, God bearing witness in respect of his gifts: and through it he being dead yet speaketh.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Heb.11.5" data-parsed="Heb_11_5_0_0" data-passage="Heb 11.5" id="Heb.11.5"/><sup>5</sup>By faith Enoch was translated that he should not see death; and he was not found, because God translated him: for he hath had witness borne to him that before his translation he had been well-pleasing unto God: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Heb.11.6" data-parsed="Heb_11_6_0_0" data-passage="Heb 11.6" id="Heb.11.6"/><sup>6</sup>And without faith it is impossible to be well-pleasing <i>unto him</i>; for he that cometh to God must believe that he is, and <i>that</i> he is a rewarder of them that seek after him. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Heb.11.7" data-parsed="Heb_11_7_0_0" data-passage="Heb 11.7" id="Heb.11.7"/><sup>7</sup>By faith Noah, being warned <i>of God</i>
concerning things not seen as yet, moved with godly fear, prepared an ark to the saving of his house; through which he condemned the world, and became heir of the righteousness which is according to faith. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Heb.11.8" data-parsed="Heb_11_8_0_0" data-passage="Heb 11.8" id="Heb.11.8"/><sup>8</sup>By faith Abraham,
when he was called, obeyed to go out unto a place which he was to receive for an inheritance; and he went out, not knowing whither he went. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Heb.11.9" data-parsed="Heb_11_9_0_0" data-passage="Heb 11.9" id="Heb.11.9"/><sup>9</sup>By faith he became a sojourner in the land of promise, as in a <i>land</i> not his own, dwelling in tents, with Isaac and Jacob, the heirs with him of the same promise: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Heb.11.10" data-parsed="Heb_11_10_0_0" data-passage="Heb 11.10" id="Heb.11.10"/><sup>10</sup>for he looked for the city which hath the foundations, whose builder and maker is God. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Heb.11.11" data-parsed="Heb_11_11_0_0" data-passage="Heb 11.11" id="Heb.11.11"/><sup>11</sup>By faith even Sarah herself received power to conceive seed when she was past age, since she counted him faithful who had promised: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Heb.11.12" data-parsed="Heb_11_12_0_0" data-passage="Heb 11.12" id="Heb.11.12"/><sup>12</sup>wherefore also there sprang of one, and him as good as dead,
<i>so many</i> as the stars of heaven in multitude, and as the sand, which is by the sea-shore, innumerable. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Heb.11.13" data-parsed="Heb_11_13_0_0" data-passage="Heb 11.13" id="Heb.11.13"/><sup>13</sup>These all died in faith, not having received the promises, but having seen them and greeted them from afar, and having confessed that they were strangers and pilgrims on the earth.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Heb.11.14" data-parsed="Heb_11_14_0_0" data-passage="Heb 11.14" id="Heb.11.14"/><sup>14</sup>For they that say such things make it manifest that they are seeking after a country of their own. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Heb.11.15" data-parsed="Heb_11_15_0_0" data-passage="Heb 11.15" id="Heb.11.15"/><sup>15</sup>And if indeed they had been mindful of that <i>country</i> from which they went out, they would have had opportunity to return. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Heb.11.16" data-parsed="Heb_11_16_0_0" data-passage="Heb 11.16" id="Heb.11.16"/><sup>16</sup>But now they desire a better <i>country</i>,
that is, a heavenly: wherefore God is not ashamed of them, to be called their God; for he hath prepared for them a city. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Heb.11.17" data-parsed="Heb_11_17_0_0" data-passage="Heb 11.17" id="Heb.11.17"/><sup>17</sup>By faith Abraham, being tried, offered up Isaac: yea, he that had gladly received the promises was offering up his only begotten <i>son</i>; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Heb.11.18" data-parsed="Heb_11_18_0_0" data-passage="Heb 11.18" id="Heb.11.18"/><sup>18</sup>even he to whom it was said,
In Isaac shall thy seed be called: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Heb.11.19" data-parsed="Heb_11_19_0_0" data-passage="Heb 11.19" id="Heb.11.19"/><sup>19</sup>accounting that God <i>is</i> able to raise up, even from the dead; from whence he did also in a figure receive him back. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Heb.11.20" data-parsed="Heb_11_20_0_0" data-passage="Heb 11.20" id="Heb.11.20"/><sup>20</sup>By faith Isaac blessed Jacob and Esau, even concerning things to come. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Heb.11.21" data-parsed="Heb_11_21_0_0" data-passage="Heb 11.21" id="Heb.11.21"/><sup>21</sup>By faith Jacob, when he was dying, blessed each of the sons of Joseph; and worshipped, <i>leaning</i> upon the top of his staff. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Heb.11.22" data-parsed="Heb_11_22_0_0" data-passage="Heb 11.22" id="Heb.11.22"/><sup>22</sup>By faith Joseph, when his end was nigh, made mention of the departure of the children of Israel; and gave commandment concerning his bones. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Heb.11.23" data-parsed="Heb_11_23_0_0" data-passage="Heb 11.23" id="Heb.11.23"/><sup>23</sup>By faith Moses, when he was born, was hid three months by his parents, because they saw he was a goodly child; and they were not afraid of the king's commandment. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Heb.11.24" data-parsed="Heb_11_24_0_0" data-passage="Heb 11.24" id="Heb.11.24"/><sup>24</sup>By faith Moses, when he was grown up, refused to be called the son of Pharaoh's daughter; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Heb.11.25" data-parsed="Heb_11_25_0_0" data-passage="Heb 11.25" id="Heb.11.25"/><sup>25</sup>choosing rather to share ill treatment with the people of God, than to enjoy the pleasures of sin for a season;

<span data-osisref="Bible:Heb.11.26" data-parsed="Heb_11_26_0_0" data-passage="Heb 11.26" id="Heb.11.26"/><sup>26</sup>accounting the reproach of Christ greater riches than the treasures of Egypt: for he looked unto the recompense of reward. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Heb.11.27" data-parsed="Heb_11_27_0_0" data-passage="Heb 11.27" id="Heb.11.27"/><sup>27</sup>By faith he forsook Egypt, not fearing the wrath of the king: for he endured, as seeing him who is invisible. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Heb.11.28" data-parsed="Heb_11_28_0_0" data-passage="Heb 11.28" id="Heb.11.28"/><sup>28</sup>By faith he kept the passover, and the sprinkling of the blood, that the destroyer of the firstborn should not touch them. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Heb.11.29" data-parsed="Heb_11_29_0_0" data-passage="Heb 11.29" id="Heb.11.29"/><sup>29</sup>By faith they passed through the Red sea as by dry land: which the Egyptians assaying to do were swallowed up. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Heb.11.30" data-parsed="Heb_11_30_0_0" data-passage="Heb 11.30" id="Heb.11.30"/><sup>30</sup>By faith the walls of Jericho fell down, after they had been compassed about for seven days. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Heb.11.31" data-parsed="Heb_11_31_0_0" data-passage="Heb 11.31" id="Heb.11.31"/><sup>31</sup>By faith Rahab the harlot perished not with them that were disobedient, having received the spies with peace. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Heb.11.32" data-parsed="Heb_11_32_0_0" data-passage="Heb 11.32" id="Heb.11.32"/><sup>32</sup>And what shall I more say? for the time will fail me if I tell of Gideon, Barak, Samson, Jephthah; of David and Samuel and the prophets: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Heb.11.33" data-parsed="Heb_11_33_0_0" data-passage="Heb 11.33" id="Heb.11.33"/><sup>33</sup>who through faith subdued kingdoms, wrought righteousness, obtained promises, stopped the mouths of lions, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Heb.11.34" data-parsed="Heb_11_34_0_0" data-passage="Heb 11.34" id="Heb.11.34"/><sup>34</sup>quenched the power of fire, escaped the edge of the sword, from weakness were made strong, waxed mighty in war, turned to flight armies of aliens. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Heb.11.35" data-parsed="Heb_11_35_0_0" data-passage="Heb 11.35" id="Heb.11.35"/><sup>35</sup>Women received their dead by a resurrection: and others were tortured, not accepting their deliverance; that they might obtain a better resurrection:

<span data-osisref="Bible:Heb.11.36" data-parsed="Heb_11_36_0_0" data-passage="Heb 11.36" id="Heb.11.36"/><sup>36</sup>and others had trial of mockings and scourgings, yea, moreover of bonds and imprisonment: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Heb.11.37" data-parsed="Heb_11_37_0_0" data-passage="Heb 11.37" id="Heb.11.37"/><sup>37</sup>they were stoned, they were sawn asunder, they were tempted, they were slain with the sword: they went about in sheepskins, in goatskins; being destitute, afflicted, ill-treated 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Heb.11.38" data-parsed="Heb_11_38_0_0" data-passage="Heb 11.38" id="Heb.11.38"/><sup>38</sup>(of whom the world was not worthy), wandering in deserts and mountains and caves, and the holes of the earth. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Heb.11.39" data-parsed="Heb_11_39_0_0" data-passage="Heb 11.39" id="Heb.11.39"/><sup>39</sup>And these all, having had witness borne to them through their faith, received not the promise, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Heb.11.40" data-parsed="Heb_11_40_0_0" data-passage="Heb 11.40" id="Heb.11.40"/><sup>40</sup>God having provided some better thing concerning us, that apart from us they should not be made perfect.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>