<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Hebrews 12</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Hebrews 12</span></div><div data-next="Heb.13" data-prev="Heb.11" data-progress="97.07%" data-shorttitle="" id="Heb.12" title="Hebrews 12">
<h2 id="Heb.12-p0.1">12</h2>
<p id="Heb.12-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Heb.12.1" data-parsed="Heb_12_1_0_0" data-passage="Heb 12.1" id="Heb.12.1"/><sup>1</sup>Therefore let us also, seeing we are compassed about with so great a cloud of witnesses, lay aside every weight, and the sin which doth so easily beset us, and let us run with patience the race that is set before us,

<span data-osisref="Bible:Heb.12.2" data-parsed="Heb_12_2_0_0" data-passage="Heb 12.2" id="Heb.12.2"/><sup>2</sup>looking unto Jesus the author and perfecter of <i>our</i> faith, who for the joy that was set before him endured the cross, despising shame, and hath sat down at the right hand of the throne of God. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Heb.12.3" data-parsed="Heb_12_3_0_0" data-passage="Heb 12.3" id="Heb.12.3"/><sup>3</sup>For consider him that hath endured such gainsaying of sinners against himself, that ye wax not weary, fainting in your souls. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Heb.12.4" data-parsed="Heb_12_4_0_0" data-passage="Heb 12.4" id="Heb.12.4"/><sup>4</sup>Ye have not yet resisted unto blood,
striving against sin: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Heb.12.5" data-parsed="Heb_12_5_0_0" data-passage="Heb 12.5" id="Heb.12.5"/><sup>5</sup>and ye have forgotten the exhortation which reasoneth with you as with sons,</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Heb.12-p2">
My son, regard not lightly the chastening of the Lord,</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Heb.12-p3">
Nor faint when thou art reproved of him;</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Heb.12-p4">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Heb.12.6" data-parsed="Heb_12_6_0_0" data-passage="Heb 12.6" id="Heb.12.6"/><sup>6</sup>For whom the Lord loveth he chasteneth,</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Heb.12-p5">
And scourgeth every son whom he receiveth.</p>
<p id="Heb.12-p6">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Heb.12.7" data-parsed="Heb_12_7_0_0" data-passage="Heb 12.7" id="Heb.12.7"/><sup>7</sup>It is for chastening that ye endure; God dealeth with you as with sons;
for what son is there whom <i>his</i> father chasteneth not? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Heb.12.8" data-parsed="Heb_12_8_0_0" data-passage="Heb 12.8" id="Heb.12.8"/><sup>8</sup>But if ye are without chastening, whereof all have been made partakers, then are ye bastards, and not sons. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Heb.12.9" data-parsed="Heb_12_9_0_0" data-passage="Heb 12.9" id="Heb.12.9"/><sup>9</sup>Furthermore, we had the fathers of our flesh to chasten us, and we gave them reverence: shall we not much rather be in subjection unto the Father of spirits, and live? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Heb.12.10" data-parsed="Heb_12_10_0_0" data-passage="Heb 12.10" id="Heb.12.10"/><sup>10</sup>For they indeed for a few days chastened <i>us</i> as seemed good to them; but he for <i>our</i>
profit, that <i>we</i> may be partakers of his holiness. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Heb.12.11" data-parsed="Heb_12_11_0_0" data-passage="Heb 12.11" id="Heb.12.11"/><sup>11</sup>All chastening seemeth for the present to be not joyous but grievous; yet afterward it yieldeth peaceable fruit unto them that have been exercised thereby, <i>even the fruit</i> of righteousness. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Heb.12.12" data-parsed="Heb_12_12_0_0" data-passage="Heb 12.12" id="Heb.12.12"/><sup>12</sup>Wherefore lift up the hands that hang down, and the palsied knees; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Heb.12.13" data-parsed="Heb_12_13_0_0" data-passage="Heb 12.13" id="Heb.12.13"/><sup>13</sup>and make straight paths for your feet, that that which is lame be not turned out of the way, but rather be healed. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Heb.12.14" data-parsed="Heb_12_14_0_0" data-passage="Heb 12.14" id="Heb.12.14"/><sup>14</sup>Follow after peace with all men, and the sanctification without which no man shall see the Lord: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Heb.12.15" data-parsed="Heb_12_15_0_0" data-passage="Heb 12.15" id="Heb.12.15"/><sup>15</sup>looking carefully lest <i>there be</i> any man that falleth short of the grace of God; lest any root of bitterness springing up trouble <i>you</i>, and thereby the many be defiled; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Heb.12.16" data-parsed="Heb_12_16_0_0" data-passage="Heb 12.16" id="Heb.12.16"/><sup>16</sup>lest <i>there be</i> any fornication, or profane person, as Esau, who for one mess of meat sold his own birthright.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Heb.12.17" data-parsed="Heb_12_17_0_0" data-passage="Heb 12.17" id="Heb.12.17"/><sup>17</sup>For ye know that even when he afterward desired to inherit the blessing, he was rejected; for he found no place for a change of mind <i>in his father,</i> though he sought it diligently with tears. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Heb.12.18" data-parsed="Heb_12_18_0_0" data-passage="Heb 12.18" id="Heb.12.18"/><sup>18</sup>For ye are not come unto <i>a mount</i> that might be touched, and that burned with fire, and unto blackness, and darkness, and tempest, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Heb.12.19" data-parsed="Heb_12_19_0_0" data-passage="Heb 12.19" id="Heb.12.19"/><sup>19</sup>and the sound of a trumpet, and the voice of words; which <i>voice</i> they that heard entreated that no word more should be spoken unto them; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Heb.12.20" data-parsed="Heb_12_20_0_0" data-passage="Heb 12.20" id="Heb.12.20"/><sup>20</sup>for they could not endure that which was enjoined, If even a beast touch the mountain, it shall be stoned; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Heb.12.21" data-parsed="Heb_12_21_0_0" data-passage="Heb 12.21" id="Heb.12.21"/><sup>21</sup>and so fearful was the appearance, <i>that</i> Moses said, I exceedingly fear and quake: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Heb.12.22" data-parsed="Heb_12_22_0_0" data-passage="Heb 12.22" id="Heb.12.22"/><sup>22</sup>but ye are come unto mount Zion,
and unto the city of the living God, the heavenly Jerusalem, and to innumerable hosts of angels, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Heb.12.23" data-parsed="Heb_12_23_0_0" data-passage="Heb 12.23" id="Heb.12.23"/><sup>23</sup>to the general assembly and church of the firstborn who are enrolled in heaven, and to God the Judge of all, and to the spirits of just men made perfect, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Heb.12.24" data-parsed="Heb_12_24_0_0" data-passage="Heb 12.24" id="Heb.12.24"/><sup>24</sup>and to Jesus the mediator of a new covenant, and to the blood of sprinkling that speaketh better than <i>that of</i> Abel. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Heb.12.25" data-parsed="Heb_12_25_0_0" data-passage="Heb 12.25" id="Heb.12.25"/><sup>25</sup>See that ye refuse not him that speaketh. For if they escaped not when they refused him that warned <i>them</i> on earth, much more <i>shall not</i> we <i>escape</i> who turn away from him that <i>warneth</i> from heaven: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Heb.12.26" data-parsed="Heb_12_26_0_0" data-passage="Heb 12.26" id="Heb.12.26"/><sup>26</sup>whose voice then shook the earth: but now he hath promised, saying, Yet once more will I make to tremble not the earth only, but also the heaven. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Heb.12.27" data-parsed="Heb_12_27_0_0" data-passage="Heb 12.27" id="Heb.12.27"/><sup>27</sup>And this <i>word</i>, Yet once more,
signifieth the removing of those things that are shaken, as of things that have been made, that those things which are not shaken may remain.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Heb.12.28" data-parsed="Heb_12_28_0_0" data-passage="Heb 12.28" id="Heb.12.28"/><sup>28</sup>Wherefore, receiving a kingdom that cannot be shaken, let us have grace, whereby we may offer service well-pleasing to God with reverence and awe: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Heb.12.29" data-parsed="Heb_12_29_0_0" data-passage="Heb 12.29" id="Heb.12.29"/><sup>29</sup>for our God is a consuming fire.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>