<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Hebrews 2</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Hebrews 2</span></div><div data-next="Heb.3" data-prev="Heb.1" data-progress="96.37%" data-shorttitle="" id="Heb.2" title="Hebrews 2">
<h2 id="Heb.2-p0.1">2</h2>
<p id="Heb.2-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Heb.2.1" data-parsed="Heb_2_1_0_0" data-passage="Heb 2.1" id="Heb.2.1"/><sup>1</sup>Therefore we ought to give the more earnest heed to the things that were heard, lest haply we drift away <i>from them</i>. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Heb.2.2" data-parsed="Heb_2_2_0_0" data-passage="Heb 2.2" id="Heb.2.2"/><sup>2</sup>For if the word spoken through angels proved stedfast, and every transgression and disobedience received a just recompense of reward; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Heb.2.3" data-parsed="Heb_2_3_0_0" data-passage="Heb 2.3" id="Heb.2.3"/><sup>3</sup>how shall we escape,
if we neglect so great a salvation? which having at the first been spoken through the Lord, was confirmed unto us by them that heard; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Heb.2.4" data-parsed="Heb_2_4_0_0" data-passage="Heb 2.4" id="Heb.2.4"/><sup>4</sup>God also bearing witness with them, both by signs and wonders, and by manifold powers,
and by gifts of the Holy Spirit, according to his own will. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Heb.2.5" data-parsed="Heb_2_5_0_0" data-passage="Heb 2.5" id="Heb.2.5"/><sup>5</sup>For not unto angels did he subject the world to come, whereof we speak. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Heb.2.6" data-parsed="Heb_2_6_0_0" data-passage="Heb 2.6" id="Heb.2.6"/><sup>6</sup>But one hath somewhere testified, saying,</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Heb.2-p2">
What is man, that thou art mindful of him?</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Heb.2-p3">
Or the son of man, that thou visitest him?</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Heb.2-p4">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Heb.2.7" data-parsed="Heb_2_7_0_0" data-passage="Heb 2.7" id="Heb.2.7"/><sup>7</sup>Thou madest him a little lower than the angels;</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Heb.2-p5">
Thou crownedst him with glory and honor,</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Heb.2-p6">
And didst set him over the works of thy hands:</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Heb.2-p7">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Heb.2.8" data-parsed="Heb_2_8_0_0" data-passage="Heb 2.8" id="Heb.2.8"/><sup>8</sup>Thou didst put all things in subjection under his feet.</p>
<p id="Heb.2-p8">
For in that he subjected all things unto him, he left nothing that is not subject to him. But now we see not yet all things subjected to him. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Heb.2.9" data-parsed="Heb_2_9_0_0" data-passage="Heb 2.9" id="Heb.2.9"/><sup>9</sup>But we behold him who hath been made a little lower than the angels, <i>even</i>
Jesus, because of the suffering of death crowned with glory and honor, that by the grace of God he should taste of death for every <i>man</i>. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Heb.2.10" data-parsed="Heb_2_10_0_0" data-passage="Heb 2.10" id="Heb.2.10"/><sup>10</sup>For it became him, for whom are all things, and through whom are all things, in bringing many sons unto glory, to make the author of their salvation perfect through sufferings. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Heb.2.11" data-parsed="Heb_2_11_0_0" data-passage="Heb 2.11" id="Heb.2.11"/><sup>11</sup>For both he that sanctifieth and they that are sanctified are all of one: for which cause he is not ashamed to call them brethren, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Heb.2.12" data-parsed="Heb_2_12_0_0" data-passage="Heb 2.12" id="Heb.2.12"/><sup>12</sup>saying,</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Heb.2-p9">
I will declare thy name unto my brethren,</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Heb.2-p10">
In the midst of the congregation will I sing thy praise.</p>
<p id="Heb.2-p11">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Heb.2.13" data-parsed="Heb_2_13_0_0" data-passage="Heb 2.13" id="Heb.2.13"/><sup>13</sup>And again, I will put my trust in him. And again, Behold, I and the children whom God hath given me. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Heb.2.14" data-parsed="Heb_2_14_0_0" data-passage="Heb 2.14" id="Heb.2.14"/><sup>14</sup>Since then the children are sharers in flesh and blood, he also himself in like manner partook of the same; that through death he might bring to nought him that had the power of death, that is, the devil; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Heb.2.15" data-parsed="Heb_2_15_0_0" data-passage="Heb 2.15" id="Heb.2.15"/><sup>15</sup>and might deliver all them who through fear of death were all their lifetime subject to bondage. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Heb.2.16" data-parsed="Heb_2_16_0_0" data-passage="Heb 2.16" id="Heb.2.16"/><sup>16</sup>For verily not to angels doth he give help, but he giveth help to the seed of Abraham. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Heb.2.17" data-parsed="Heb_2_17_0_0" data-passage="Heb 2.17" id="Heb.2.17"/><sup>17</sup>Wherefore it behooved him in all things to be made like unto his brethren, that he might become a merciful and faithful high priest in things pertaining to God,
to make propitiation for the sins of the people. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Heb.2.18" data-parsed="Heb_2_18_0_0" data-passage="Heb 2.18" id="Heb.2.18"/><sup>18</sup>For in that he himself hath suffered being tempted, he is able to succor them that are tempted.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>