<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Hebrews 4</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Hebrews 4</span></div><div data-next="Heb.5" data-prev="Heb.3" data-progress="96.47%" data-shorttitle="" id="Heb.4" title="Hebrews 4">
<h2 id="Heb.4-p0.1">4</h2>
<p id="Heb.4-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Heb.4.1" data-parsed="Heb_4_1_0_0" data-passage="Heb 4.1" id="Heb.4.1"/><sup>1</sup>Let us fear therefore, lest haply, a promise being left of entering into his rest, any one of you should seem to have come short of it. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Heb.4.2" data-parsed="Heb_4_2_0_0" data-passage="Heb 4.2" id="Heb.4.2"/><sup>2</sup>For indeed we have had good tidings preached unto us, even as also they: but the word of hearing did not profit them, because it was not united by faith with them that heard. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Heb.4.3" data-parsed="Heb_4_3_0_0" data-passage="Heb 4.3" id="Heb.4.3"/><sup>3</sup>For we who have believed do enter into that rest; even as he hath said,</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Heb.4-p2">
As I sware in my wrath,</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Heb.4-p3">
They shall not enter into my rest:</p>
<p id="Heb.4-p4">
although the works were finished from the foundation of the world. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Heb.4.4" data-parsed="Heb_4_4_0_0" data-passage="Heb 4.4" id="Heb.4.4"/><sup>4</sup>For he hath said somewhere of the seventh <i>day</i> on this wise, And God rested on the seventh day from all his works; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Heb.4.5" data-parsed="Heb_4_5_0_0" data-passage="Heb 4.5" id="Heb.4.5"/><sup>5</sup>and in this <i>place</i>
again,</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Heb.4-p5">
They shall not enter into my rest.</p>
<p id="Heb.4-p6">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Heb.4.6" data-parsed="Heb_4_6_0_0" data-passage="Heb 4.6" id="Heb.4.6"/><sup>6</sup>Seeing therefore it remaineth that some should enter thereinto, and they to whom the good tidings were before preached failed to enter in because of disobedience, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Heb.4.7" data-parsed="Heb_4_7_0_0" data-passage="Heb 4.7" id="Heb.4.7"/><sup>7</sup>he again defineth a certain day, To-day, saying in David so long a time afterward (even as hath been said before),</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Heb.4-p7">
To-day if ye shall hear his voice,</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Heb.4-p8">
Harden not your hearts.</p>
<p id="Heb.4-p9">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Heb.4.8" data-parsed="Heb_4_8_0_0" data-passage="Heb 4.8" id="Heb.4.8"/><sup>8</sup>For if Joshua had given them rest, he would not have spoken afterward of another day. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Heb.4.9" data-parsed="Heb_4_9_0_0" data-passage="Heb 4.9" id="Heb.4.9"/><sup>9</sup>There remaineth therefore a sabbath rest for the people of God. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Heb.4.10" data-parsed="Heb_4_10_0_0" data-passage="Heb 4.10" id="Heb.4.10"/><sup>10</sup>For he that is entered into his rest hath himself also rested from his works, as God did from his. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Heb.4.11" data-parsed="Heb_4_11_0_0" data-passage="Heb 4.11" id="Heb.4.11"/><sup>11</sup>Let us therefore give diligence to enter into that rest, that no man fall after the same example of disobedience. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Heb.4.12" data-parsed="Heb_4_12_0_0" data-passage="Heb 4.12" id="Heb.4.12"/><sup>12</sup>For the word of God is living, and active, and sharper than any two-edged sword, and piercing even to the dividing of soul and spirit, of both joints and marrow, and quick to discern the thoughts and intents of the heart. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Heb.4.13" data-parsed="Heb_4_13_0_0" data-passage="Heb 4.13" id="Heb.4.13"/><sup>13</sup>And there is no creature that is not manifest in his sight: but all things are naked and laid open before the eyes of him with whom we have to do. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Heb.4.14" data-parsed="Heb_4_14_0_0" data-passage="Heb 4.14" id="Heb.4.14"/><sup>14</sup>Having then a great high priest, who hath passed through the heavens, Jesus the Son of God, let us hold fast our confession.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Heb.4.15" data-parsed="Heb_4_15_0_0" data-passage="Heb 4.15" id="Heb.4.15"/><sup>15</sup>For we have not a high priest that cannot be touched with the feeling of our infirmities; but one that hath been in all points tempted like as <i>we are, yet</i> without sin. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Heb.4.16" data-parsed="Heb_4_16_0_0" data-passage="Heb 4.16" id="Heb.4.16"/><sup>16</sup>Let us therefore draw near with boldness unto the throne of grace, that we may receive mercy, and may find grace to help <i>us</i> in time of need.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>