<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Hebrews 6</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Hebrews 6</span></div><div data-next="Heb.7" data-prev="Heb.5" data-progress="96.57%" data-shorttitle="" id="Heb.6" title="Hebrews 6">
<h2 id="Heb.6-p0.1">6</h2>
<p id="Heb.6-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Heb.6.1" data-parsed="Heb_6_1_0_0" data-passage="Heb 6.1" id="Heb.6.1"/><sup>1</sup>Wherefore leaving the doctrine of the first principles of Christ,
let us press on unto perfection; not laying again a foundation of repentance from dead works, and of faith toward God, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Heb.6.2" data-parsed="Heb_6_2_0_0" data-passage="Heb 6.2" id="Heb.6.2"/><sup>2</sup>of the teaching of baptisms,
and of laying on of hands, and of resurrection of the dead, and of eternal judgment. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Heb.6.3" data-parsed="Heb_6_3_0_0" data-passage="Heb 6.3" id="Heb.6.3"/><sup>3</sup>And this will we do, if God permit. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Heb.6.4" data-parsed="Heb_6_4_0_0" data-passage="Heb 6.4" id="Heb.6.4"/><sup>4</sup>For as touching those who were once enlightened and tasted of the heavenly gift, and were made partakers of the Holy Spirit, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Heb.6.5" data-parsed="Heb_6_5_0_0" data-passage="Heb 6.5" id="Heb.6.5"/><sup>5</sup>and tasted the good word of God, and the powers of the age to come, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Heb.6.6" data-parsed="Heb_6_6_0_0" data-passage="Heb 6.6" id="Heb.6.6"/><sup>6</sup>and <i>then</i> fell away, it is impossible to renew them again unto repentance; seeing they crucify to themselves the Son of God afresh, and put him to an open shame. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Heb.6.7" data-parsed="Heb_6_7_0_0" data-passage="Heb 6.7" id="Heb.6.7"/><sup>7</sup>For the land which hath drunk the rain that cometh oft upon it, and bringeth forth herbs meet for them for whose sake it is also tilled, receiveth blessing from God: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Heb.6.8" data-parsed="Heb_6_8_0_0" data-passage="Heb 6.8" id="Heb.6.8"/><sup>8</sup>but if it beareth thorns and thistles, it is rejected and nigh unto a curse;
whose end is to be burned. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Heb.6.9" data-parsed="Heb_6_9_0_0" data-passage="Heb 6.9" id="Heb.6.9"/><sup>9</sup>But, beloved, we are persuaded better things of you, and things that accompany salvation, though we thus speak: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Heb.6.10" data-parsed="Heb_6_10_0_0" data-passage="Heb 6.10" id="Heb.6.10"/><sup>10</sup>for God is not unrighteous to forget your work and the love which ye showed toward his name, in that ye ministered unto the saints, and still do minister. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Heb.6.11" data-parsed="Heb_6_11_0_0" data-passage="Heb 6.11" id="Heb.6.11"/><sup>11</sup>And we desire that each one of you may show the same diligence unto the fulness of hope even to the end: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Heb.6.12" data-parsed="Heb_6_12_0_0" data-passage="Heb 6.12" id="Heb.6.12"/><sup>12</sup>that ye be not sluggish, but imitators of them who through faith and patience inherit the promises. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Heb.6.13" data-parsed="Heb_6_13_0_0" data-passage="Heb 6.13" id="Heb.6.13"/><sup>13</sup>For when God made promise to Abraham, since he could swear by none greater, he sware by himself, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Heb.6.14" data-parsed="Heb_6_14_0_0" data-passage="Heb 6.14" id="Heb.6.14"/><sup>14</sup>saying, Surely blessing I will bless thee, and multiplying I will multiply thee. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Heb.6.15" data-parsed="Heb_6_15_0_0" data-passage="Heb 6.15" id="Heb.6.15"/><sup>15</sup>And thus, having patiently endured, he obtained the promise. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Heb.6.16" data-parsed="Heb_6_16_0_0" data-passage="Heb 6.16" id="Heb.6.16"/><sup>16</sup>For men swear by the greater: and in every dispute of theirs the oath is final for confirmation. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Heb.6.17" data-parsed="Heb_6_17_0_0" data-passage="Heb 6.17" id="Heb.6.17"/><sup>17</sup>Wherein God, being minded to show more abundantly unto the heirs of the promise the immutability of his counsel, interposed with an oath; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Heb.6.18" data-parsed="Heb_6_18_0_0" data-passage="Heb 6.18" id="Heb.6.18"/><sup>18</sup>that by two immutable things, in which it is impossible for God to lie, we may have a strong encouragement, who have fled for refuge to lay hold of the hope set before us: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Heb.6.19" data-parsed="Heb_6_19_0_0" data-passage="Heb 6.19" id="Heb.6.19"/><sup>19</sup>which we have as an anchor of the soul, <i>a hope</i> both sure and stedfast and entering into that which is within the veil;

<span data-osisref="Bible:Heb.6.20" data-parsed="Heb_6_20_0_0" data-passage="Heb 6.20" id="Heb.6.20"/><sup>20</sup>whither as a forerunner Jesus entered for us, having become a high priest for ever after the order of Melchizedek.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>