<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Hebrews 8</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Hebrews 8</span></div><div data-next="Heb.9" data-prev="Heb.7" data-progress="96.70%" data-shorttitle="" id="Heb.8" title="Hebrews 8">
<h2 id="Heb.8-p0.1">8</h2>
<p id="Heb.8-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Heb.8.1" data-parsed="Heb_8_1_0_0" data-passage="Heb 8.1" id="Heb.8.1"/><sup>1</sup>Now in the things which we are saying the chief point <i>is this</i>: We have such a high priest, who sat down on the right hand of the throne of the Majesty in the heavens, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Heb.8.2" data-parsed="Heb_8_2_0_0" data-passage="Heb 8.2" id="Heb.8.2"/><sup>2</sup>a minister of the sanctuary, and of the true tabernacle, which the Lord pitched, not man. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Heb.8.3" data-parsed="Heb_8_3_0_0" data-passage="Heb 8.3" id="Heb.8.3"/><sup>3</sup>For every high priest is appointed to offer both gifts and sacrifices: wherefore it is necessary that this <i>high priest</i> also have somewhat to offer. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Heb.8.4" data-parsed="Heb_8_4_0_0" data-passage="Heb 8.4" id="Heb.8.4"/><sup>4</sup>Now if he were on earth, he would not be a priest at all, seeing there are those who offer the gifts according to the law; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Heb.8.5" data-parsed="Heb_8_5_0_0" data-passage="Heb 8.5" id="Heb.8.5"/><sup>5</sup>who serve <i>that which is</i> a copy and shadow of the heavenly things, even as Moses is warned <i>of God</i> when he is about to make the tabernacle: for, See, saith he,
that thou make all things according to the pattern that was showed thee in the mount. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Heb.8.6" data-parsed="Heb_8_6_0_0" data-passage="Heb 8.6" id="Heb.8.6"/><sup>6</sup>But now hath he obtained a ministry the more excellent, by so much as he is also the mediator of a better covenant, which hath been enacted upon better promises. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Heb.8.7" data-parsed="Heb_8_7_0_0" data-passage="Heb 8.7" id="Heb.8.7"/><sup>7</sup>For if that first <i>covenant</i> had been faultless, then would no place have been sought for a second. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Heb.8.8" data-parsed="Heb_8_8_0_0" data-passage="Heb 8.8" id="Heb.8.8"/><sup>8</sup>For finding fault with them, he saith,</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Heb.8-p2">
Behold, the days come, saith the Lord,</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Heb.8-p3">
That I will make a new covenant with the house of Israel and with the house of Judah;</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Heb.8-p4">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Heb.8.9" data-parsed="Heb_8_9_0_0" data-passage="Heb 8.9" id="Heb.8.9"/><sup>9</sup>Not according to the covenant that I made with their fathers</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Heb.8-p5">
In the day that I took them by the hand to lead them forth out of the land of Egypt;</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Heb.8-p6">
For they continued not in my covenant,</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Heb.8-p7">
And I regarded them not, saith the Lord.</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Heb.8-p8">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Heb.8.10" data-parsed="Heb_8_10_0_0" data-passage="Heb 8.10" id="Heb.8.10"/><sup>10</sup>For this is the covenant that I will make with the house of Israel</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Heb.8-p9">
After those days, saith the Lord;</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Heb.8-p10">
I will put my laws into their mind,</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Heb.8-p11">
And on their heart also will I write them:</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Heb.8-p12">
And I will be to them a God,</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Heb.8-p13">
And they shall be to me a people:</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Heb.8-p14">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Heb.8.11" data-parsed="Heb_8_11_0_0" data-passage="Heb 8.11" id="Heb.8.11"/><sup>11</sup>And they shall not teach every man his fellow-citizen,</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Heb.8-p15">
And every man his brother, saying, Know the Lord:</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Heb.8-p16">
For all shall know me,</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Heb.8-p17">
From the least to the greatest of them.</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Heb.8-p18">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Heb.8.12" data-parsed="Heb_8_12_0_0" data-passage="Heb 8.12" id="Heb.8.12"/><sup>12</sup>For I will be merciful to their iniquities,</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Heb.8-p19">
And their sins will I remember no more.</p>
<p id="Heb.8-p20">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Heb.8.13" data-parsed="Heb_8_13_0_0" data-passage="Heb 8.13" id="Heb.8.13"/><sup>13</sup>In that he saith, A new <i>covenant</i> he hath made the first old.
But that which is becoming old and waxeth aged is nigh unto vanishing away.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>