<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Hosea 14</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Hosea 14</span></div><div data-next="Joel" data-prev="Hos.13" data-progress="74.28%" data-shorttitle="" id="Hos.14" title="Hosea 14">
<h2 id="Hos.14-p0.1">14</h2>
<p id="Hos.14-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Hos.14.1" data-parsed="Hos_14_1_0_0" data-passage="Hos 14.1" id="Hos.14.1"/><sup>1</sup>O Israel, return unto Jehovah thy God; for thou hast fallen by thine iniquity. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Hos.14.2" data-parsed="Hos_14_2_0_0" data-passage="Hos 14.2" id="Hos.14.2"/><sup>2</sup>Take with you words, and return unto Jehovah: say unto him, Take away all iniquity, and accept that which is good: so will we render <i>as</i> bullocks <i>the offering of</i> our lips. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Hos.14.3" data-parsed="Hos_14_3_0_0" data-passage="Hos 14.3" id="Hos.14.3"/><sup>3</sup>Assyria shall not save us; we will not ride upon horses; neither will we say any more to the work of our hands, <i>Ye are</i> our gods; for in thee the fatherless findeth mercy. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Hos.14.4" data-parsed="Hos_14_4_0_0" data-passage="Hos 14.4" id="Hos.14.4"/><sup>4</sup>I will heal their backsliding, I will love them freely;
for mine anger is turned away from him. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Hos.14.5" data-parsed="Hos_14_5_0_0" data-passage="Hos 14.5" id="Hos.14.5"/><sup>5</sup>I will be as the dew unto Israel; he shall blossom as the lily, and cast forth his roots as Lebanon.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Hos.14.6" data-parsed="Hos_14_6_0_0" data-passage="Hos 14.6" id="Hos.14.6"/><sup>6</sup>His branches shall spread, and his beauty shall be as the olive-tree,
and his smell as Lebanon. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Hos.14.7" data-parsed="Hos_14_7_0_0" data-passage="Hos 14.7" id="Hos.14.7"/><sup>7</sup>They that dwell under his shadow shall return;
they shall revive <i>as</i> the grain, and blossom as the vine: the scent thereof shall be as the wine of Lebanon. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Hos.14.8" data-parsed="Hos_14_8_0_0" data-passage="Hos 14.8" id="Hos.14.8"/><sup>8</sup>Ephraim <i>shall say</i>, What have I to do any more with idols? I have answered, and will regard him: I am like a green fir-tree; from me is thy fruit found. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Hos.14.9" data-parsed="Hos_14_9_0_0" data-passage="Hos 14.9" id="Hos.14.9"/><sup>9</sup>Who is wise, that he may understand these things? prudent, that he may know them? for the ways of Jehovah are right, and the just shall walk in them; but transgressors shall fall therein.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>