<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Hosea 13</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Hosea 13</span></div><div data-next="Hos.14" data-prev="Hos.12" data-progress="74.23%" data-shorttitle="" id="Hos.13" title="Hosea 13">
<h2 id="Hos.13-p0.1">13</h2>
<p id="Hos.13-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Hos.13.1" data-parsed="Hos_13_1_0_0" data-passage="Hos 13.1" id="Hos.13.1"/><sup>1</sup>When Ephraim spake, there was trembling; he exalted himself in Israel; but when he offended in Baal, he died. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Hos.13.2" data-parsed="Hos_13_2_0_0" data-passage="Hos 13.2" id="Hos.13.2"/><sup>2</sup>And now they sin more and more, and have made them molten images of their silver, even idols according to their own understanding, all of them the work of the craftsmen: they say of them, Let the men that sacrifice kiss the calves. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Hos.13.3" data-parsed="Hos_13_3_0_0" data-passage="Hos 13.3" id="Hos.13.3"/><sup>3</sup>Therefore they shall be as the morning cloud, and as the dew that passeth early away, as the chaff that is driven with the whirlwind out of the threshing-floor, and as the smoke out of the chimney. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Hos.13.4" data-parsed="Hos_13_4_0_0" data-passage="Hos 13.4" id="Hos.13.4"/><sup>4</sup>Yet I am Jehovah thy God from the land of Egypt; and thou shalt know no god but me, and besides me there is no saviour.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Hos.13.5" data-parsed="Hos_13_5_0_0" data-passage="Hos 13.5" id="Hos.13.5"/><sup>5</sup>I did know thee in the wilderness, in the land of great drought.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Hos.13.6" data-parsed="Hos_13_6_0_0" data-passage="Hos 13.6" id="Hos.13.6"/><sup>6</sup>According to their pasture, so were they filled; they were filled, and their heart was exalted: therefore have they forgotten me. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Hos.13.7" data-parsed="Hos_13_7_0_0" data-passage="Hos 13.7" id="Hos.13.7"/><sup>7</sup>Therefore am I unto them as a lion; as a leopard will I watch by the way; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Hos.13.8" data-parsed="Hos_13_8_0_0" data-passage="Hos 13.8" id="Hos.13.8"/><sup>8</sup>I will meet them as a bear that is bereaved of her whelps, and will rend the caul of their heart; and there will I devour them like a lioness; the wild beast shall tear them. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Hos.13.9" data-parsed="Hos_13_9_0_0" data-passage="Hos 13.9" id="Hos.13.9"/><sup>9</sup>It is thy destruction, O Israel, that <i>thou art</i>
against me, against thy help. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Hos.13.10" data-parsed="Hos_13_10_0_0" data-passage="Hos 13.10" id="Hos.13.10"/><sup>10</sup>Where now is thy king, that he may save thee in all thy cities? and thy judges, of whom thou saidst, Give me a king and princes? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Hos.13.11" data-parsed="Hos_13_11_0_0" data-passage="Hos 13.11" id="Hos.13.11"/><sup>11</sup>I have given thee a king in mine anger, and have taken him away in my wrath. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Hos.13.12" data-parsed="Hos_13_12_0_0" data-passage="Hos 13.12" id="Hos.13.12"/><sup>12</sup>The iniquity of Ephraim is bound up; his sin is laid up in store. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Hos.13.13" data-parsed="Hos_13_13_0_0" data-passage="Hos 13.13" id="Hos.13.13"/><sup>13</sup>The sorrows of a travailing woman shall come upon him: he is an unwise son; for it is time he should not tarry in the place of the breaking forth of children. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Hos.13.14" data-parsed="Hos_13_14_0_0" data-passage="Hos 13.14" id="Hos.13.14"/><sup>14</sup>I will ransom them from the power of Sheol;
I will redeem them from death: O death, where are thy plagues? O Sheol, where is thy destruction? repentance shall be hid from mine eyes. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Hos.13.15" data-parsed="Hos_13_15_0_0" data-passage="Hos 13.15" id="Hos.13.15"/><sup>15</sup>Though he be fruitful among his brethren, an east wind shall come, the breath of Jehovah coming up from the wilderness; and his spring shall become dry, and his fountain shall be dried up: he shall make spoil of the treasure of all goodly vessels. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Hos.13.16" data-parsed="Hos_13_16_0_0" data-passage="Hos 13.16" id="Hos.13.16"/><sup>16</sup>Samaria shall bear her guilt; for she hath rebelled against her God: they shall fall by the sword; their infants shall be dashed in pieces, and their women with child shall be ripped up.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>