<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Hosea 12</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Hosea 12</span></div><div data-next="Hos.13" data-prev="Hos.11" data-progress="74.19%" data-shorttitle="" id="Hos.12" title="Hosea 12">
<h2 id="Hos.12-p0.1">12</h2>
<p id="Hos.12-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Hos.12.1" data-parsed="Hos_12_1_0_0" data-passage="Hos 12.1" id="Hos.12.1"/><sup>1</sup>Ephraim feedeth on wind, and followeth after the east wind: he continually multiplieth lies and desolation; and they make a covenant with Assyria, and oil is carried into Egypt. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Hos.12.2" data-parsed="Hos_12_2_0_0" data-passage="Hos 12.2" id="Hos.12.2"/><sup>2</sup>Jehovah hath also a controversy with Judah, and will punish Jacob according to his ways; according to his doings will he recompense him. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Hos.12.3" data-parsed="Hos_12_3_0_0" data-passage="Hos 12.3" id="Hos.12.3"/><sup>3</sup>In the womb he took his brother by the heel; and in his manhood he had power with God: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Hos.12.4" data-parsed="Hos_12_4_0_0" data-passage="Hos 12.4" id="Hos.12.4"/><sup>4</sup>yea, he had power over the angel, and prevailed; he wept, and made supplication unto him: he found him at Beth-el, and there he spake with us, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Hos.12.5" data-parsed="Hos_12_5_0_0" data-passage="Hos 12.5" id="Hos.12.5"/><sup>5</sup>even Jehovah, the God of hosts; Jehovah is his memorial <i>name</i>. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Hos.12.6" data-parsed="Hos_12_6_0_0" data-passage="Hos 12.6" id="Hos.12.6"/><sup>6</sup>Therefore turn thou to thy God: keep kindness and justice, and wait for thy God continually. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Hos.12.7" data-parsed="Hos_12_7_0_0" data-passage="Hos 12.7" id="Hos.12.7"/><sup>7</sup><i>He is</i> a trafficker, the balances of deceit are in his hand: he loveth to oppress. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Hos.12.8" data-parsed="Hos_12_8_0_0" data-passage="Hos 12.8" id="Hos.12.8"/><sup>8</sup>And Ephraim said, Surely I am become rich, I have found me wealth: in all my labors they shall find in me no iniquity that were sin.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Hos.12.9" data-parsed="Hos_12_9_0_0" data-passage="Hos 12.9" id="Hos.12.9"/><sup>9</sup>But I am Jehovah thy God from the land of Egypt; I will yet again make thee to dwell in tents, as in the days of the solemn feast. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Hos.12.10" data-parsed="Hos_12_10_0_0" data-passage="Hos 12.10" id="Hos.12.10"/><sup>10</sup>I have also spoken unto the prophets, and I have multiplied visions; and by the ministry of the prophets have I used similitudes. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Hos.12.11" data-parsed="Hos_12_11_0_0" data-passage="Hos 12.11" id="Hos.12.11"/><sup>11</sup>Is Gilead iniquity? they are altogether false; in Gilgal they sacrifice bullocks; yea, their altars are as heaps in the furrows of the field. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Hos.12.12" data-parsed="Hos_12_12_0_0" data-passage="Hos 12.12" id="Hos.12.12"/><sup>12</sup>And Jacob fled into the field of Aram, and Israel served for a wife, and for a wife he kept <i>sheep</i>.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Hos.12.13" data-parsed="Hos_12_13_0_0" data-passage="Hos 12.13" id="Hos.12.13"/><sup>13</sup>And by a prophet Jehovah brought Israel up out of Egypt, and by a prophet was he preserved. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Hos.12.14" data-parsed="Hos_12_14_0_0" data-passage="Hos 12.14" id="Hos.12.14"/><sup>14</sup>Ephraim hath provoked to anger most bitterly:
therefore shall his blood be left upon him, and his reproach shall his Lord return unto him.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>