<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Hosea 11</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Hosea 11</span></div><div data-next="Hos.12" data-prev="Hos.10" data-progress="74.15%" data-shorttitle="" id="Hos.11" title="Hosea 11">
<h2 id="Hos.11-p0.1">11</h2>
<p id="Hos.11-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Hos.11.1" data-parsed="Hos_11_1_0_0" data-passage="Hos 11.1" id="Hos.11.1"/><sup>1</sup>When Israel was a child, then I loved him, and called my son out of Egypt. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Hos.11.2" data-parsed="Hos_11_2_0_0" data-passage="Hos 11.2" id="Hos.11.2"/><sup>2</sup>The more <i>the prophets</i> called them, the more they went from them: they sacrificed unto the Baalim, and burned incense to graven images. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Hos.11.3" data-parsed="Hos_11_3_0_0" data-passage="Hos 11.3" id="Hos.11.3"/><sup>3</sup>Yet I taught Ephraim to walk; I took them on my arms; but they knew not that I healed them. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Hos.11.4" data-parsed="Hos_11_4_0_0" data-passage="Hos 11.4" id="Hos.11.4"/><sup>4</sup>I drew them with cords of a man, with bands of love; and I was to them as they that lift up the yoke on their jaws; and I laid food before them. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Hos.11.5" data-parsed="Hos_11_5_0_0" data-passage="Hos 11.5" id="Hos.11.5"/><sup>5</sup>They shall not return into the land of Egypt; but the Assyrian shall be their king, because they refused to return <i>to me</i>. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Hos.11.6" data-parsed="Hos_11_6_0_0" data-passage="Hos 11.6" id="Hos.11.6"/><sup>6</sup>And the sword shall fall upon their cities, and shall consume their bars, and devour <i>them</i>, because of their own counsels. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Hos.11.7" data-parsed="Hos_11_7_0_0" data-passage="Hos 11.7" id="Hos.11.7"/><sup>7</sup>And my people are bent on backsliding from me: though they call them to <i>him that is</i> on high, none at all will exalt <i>him</i>. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Hos.11.8" data-parsed="Hos_11_8_0_0" data-passage="Hos 11.8" id="Hos.11.8"/><sup>8</sup>How shall I give thee up, Ephraim? <i>how</i> shall I cast thee off, Israel? how shall I make thee as Admah? <i>how</i> shall I set thee as Zeboiim? my heart is turned within me, my compassions are kindled together. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Hos.11.9" data-parsed="Hos_11_9_0_0" data-passage="Hos 11.9" id="Hos.11.9"/><sup>9</sup>I will not execute the fierceness of mine anger, I will not return to destroy Ephraim:
for I am God, and not man; the Holy One in the midst of thee; and I will not come in wrath. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Hos.11.10" data-parsed="Hos_11_10_0_0" data-passage="Hos 11.10" id="Hos.11.10"/><sup>10</sup>They shall walk after Jehovah, who will roar like a lion; for he will roar, and the children shall come trembling from the west.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Hos.11.11" data-parsed="Hos_11_11_0_0" data-passage="Hos 11.11" id="Hos.11.11"/><sup>11</sup>They shall come trembling as a bird out of Egypt, and as a dove out of the land of Assyria; and I will make them to dwell in their houses, saith Jehovah. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Hos.11.12" data-parsed="Hos_11_12_0_0" data-passage="Hos 11.12" id="Hos.11.12"/><sup>12</sup>Ephraim compasseth me about with falsehood, and the house of Israel with deceit; but Judah yet ruleth with God, and is faithful with the Holy One.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>