<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Hosea 10</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Hosea 10</span></div><div data-next="Hos.11" data-prev="Hos.9" data-progress="74.09%" data-shorttitle="" id="Hos.10" title="Hosea 10">
<h2 id="Hos.10-p0.1">10</h2>
<p id="Hos.10-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Hos.10.1" data-parsed="Hos_10_1_0_0" data-passage="Hos 10.1" id="Hos.10.1"/><sup>1</sup>Israel is a luxuriant vine, that putteth forth his fruit:
according to the abundance of his fruit he hath multiplied his altars;
according to the goodness of their land they have made goodly pillars.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Hos.10.2" data-parsed="Hos_10_2_0_0" data-passage="Hos 10.2" id="Hos.10.2"/><sup>2</sup>Their heart is divided; now shall they be found guilty: he will smite their altars, he will destroy their pillars. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Hos.10.3" data-parsed="Hos_10_3_0_0" data-passage="Hos 10.3" id="Hos.10.3"/><sup>3</sup>Surely now shall they say,
We have no king; for we fear not Jehovah; and the king, what can he do for us? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Hos.10.4" data-parsed="Hos_10_4_0_0" data-passage="Hos 10.4" id="Hos.10.4"/><sup>4</sup>They speak <i>vain</i> words, swearing falsely in making covenants:
therefore judgment springeth up as hemlock in the furrows of the field.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Hos.10.5" data-parsed="Hos_10_5_0_0" data-passage="Hos 10.5" id="Hos.10.5"/><sup>5</sup>The inhabitants of Samaria shall be in terror for the calves of Beth-aven; for the people thereof shall mourn over it, and the priests thereof that rejoiced over it, for the glory thereof, because it is departed from it. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Hos.10.6" data-parsed="Hos_10_6_0_0" data-passage="Hos 10.6" id="Hos.10.6"/><sup>6</sup>It also shall be carried unto Assyria for a present to king Jareb: Ephraim shall receive shame, and Israel shall be ashamed of his own counsel. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Hos.10.7" data-parsed="Hos_10_7_0_0" data-passage="Hos 10.7" id="Hos.10.7"/><sup>7</sup><i>As for</i> Samaria, her king is cut off, as foam upon the water. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Hos.10.8" data-parsed="Hos_10_8_0_0" data-passage="Hos 10.8" id="Hos.10.8"/><sup>8</sup>The high places also of Aven, the sin of Israel, shall be destroyed: the thorn and the thistle shall come up on their altars; and they shall say to the mountains, Cover us; and to the hills, Fall on us. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Hos.10.9" data-parsed="Hos_10_9_0_0" data-passage="Hos 10.9" id="Hos.10.9"/><sup>9</sup>O Israel, thou hast sinned from the days of Gibeah: there they stood; the battle against the children of iniquity doth not overtake them in Gibeah.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Hos.10.10" data-parsed="Hos_10_10_0_0" data-passage="Hos 10.10" id="Hos.10.10"/><sup>10</sup>When it is my desire, I will chastise them; and the peoples shall be gathered against them, when they are bound to their two transgressions.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Hos.10.11" data-parsed="Hos_10_11_0_0" data-passage="Hos 10.11" id="Hos.10.11"/><sup>11</sup>And Ephraim is a heifer that is taught, that loveth to tread out <i>the grain</i>; but I have passed over upon her fair neck: I will set a rider on Ephraim; Judah shall plow, Jacob shall break his clods. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Hos.10.12" data-parsed="Hos_10_12_0_0" data-passage="Hos 10.12" id="Hos.10.12"/><sup>12</sup>Sow to yourselves in righteousness, reap according to kindness; break up your fallow ground; for it is time to seek Jehovah, till he come and rain righteousness upon you. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Hos.10.13" data-parsed="Hos_10_13_0_0" data-passage="Hos 10.13" id="Hos.10.13"/><sup>13</sup>Ye have plowed wickedness, ye have reaped iniquity; ye have eaten the fruit of lies; for thou didst trust in thy way, in the multitude of thy mighty men. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Hos.10.14" data-parsed="Hos_10_14_0_0" data-passage="Hos 10.14" id="Hos.10.14"/><sup>14</sup>Therefore shall a tumult arise among thy people, and all thy fortresses shall be destroyed, as Shalman destroyed Beth-arbel in the day of battle: the mother was dashed in pieces with her children. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Hos.10.15" data-parsed="Hos_10_15_0_0" data-passage="Hos 10.15" id="Hos.10.15"/><sup>15</sup>So shall Beth-el do unto you because of your great wickedness: at daybreak shall the king of Israel be utterly cut off.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>