<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Hosea 4</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Hosea 4</span></div><div data-next="Hos.5" data-prev="Hos.3" data-progress="73.80%" data-shorttitle="" id="Hos.4" title="Hosea 4">
<h2 id="Hos.4-p0.1">4</h2>
<p id="Hos.4-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Hos.4.1" data-parsed="Hos_4_1_0_0" data-passage="Hos 4.1" id="Hos.4.1"/><sup>1</sup>Hear the word of Jehovah, ye children of Israel; for Jehovah hath a controversy with the inhabitants of the land, because there is no truth, nor goodness, nor knowledge of God in the land. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Hos.4.2" data-parsed="Hos_4_2_0_0" data-passage="Hos 4.2" id="Hos.4.2"/><sup>2</sup>There is nought but swearing and breaking faith, and killing, and stealing, and committing adultery; they break out, and blood toucheth blood. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Hos.4.3" data-parsed="Hos_4_3_0_0" data-passage="Hos 4.3" id="Hos.4.3"/><sup>3</sup>Therefore shall the land mourn, and every one that dwelleth therein shall languish, with the beasts of the field and the birds of the heavens; yea, the fishes of the sea also shall be taken away. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Hos.4.4" data-parsed="Hos_4_4_0_0" data-passage="Hos 4.4" id="Hos.4.4"/><sup>4</sup>Yet let no man strive, neither let any man reprove; for thy people are as they that strive with the priest. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Hos.4.5" data-parsed="Hos_4_5_0_0" data-passage="Hos 4.5" id="Hos.4.5"/><sup>5</sup>And thou shalt stumble in the day, and the prophet also shall stumble with thee in the night; and I will destroy thy mother. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Hos.4.6" data-parsed="Hos_4_6_0_0" data-passage="Hos 4.6" id="Hos.4.6"/><sup>6</sup>My people are destroyed for lack of knowledge:
because thou hast rejected knowledge, I will also reject thee, that thou shalt be no priest to me: seeing thou hast forgotten the law of thy God, I also will forget thy children. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Hos.4.7" data-parsed="Hos_4_7_0_0" data-passage="Hos 4.7" id="Hos.4.7"/><sup>7</sup>As they were multiplied, so they sinned against me: I will change their glory into shame. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Hos.4.8" data-parsed="Hos_4_8_0_0" data-passage="Hos 4.8" id="Hos.4.8"/><sup>8</sup>They feed on the sin of my people, and set their heart on their iniquity. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Hos.4.9" data-parsed="Hos_4_9_0_0" data-passage="Hos 4.9" id="Hos.4.9"/><sup>9</sup>And it shall be,
like people, like priest; and I will punish them for their ways, and will requite them their doings. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Hos.4.10" data-parsed="Hos_4_10_0_0" data-passage="Hos 4.10" id="Hos.4.10"/><sup>10</sup>And they shall eat, and not have enough;
they shall play the harlot, and shall not increase; because they have left off taking heed to Jehovah. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Hos.4.11" data-parsed="Hos_4_11_0_0" data-passage="Hos 4.11" id="Hos.4.11"/><sup>11</sup>Whoredom and wine and new wine take away the understanding. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Hos.4.12" data-parsed="Hos_4_12_0_0" data-passage="Hos 4.12" id="Hos.4.12"/><sup>12</sup>My people ask counsel at their stock, and their staff declareth unto them; for the spirit of whoredom hath caused them to err, and they have played the harlot, <i>departing</i> from under their God.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Hos.4.13" data-parsed="Hos_4_13_0_0" data-passage="Hos 4.13" id="Hos.4.13"/><sup>13</sup>They sacrifice upon the tops of the mountains, and burn incense upon the hills, under oaks and poplars and terebinths, because the shadow thereof is good: therefore your daughters play the harlot, and your brides commit adultery. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Hos.4.14" data-parsed="Hos_4_14_0_0" data-passage="Hos 4.14" id="Hos.4.14"/><sup>14</sup>I will not punish your daughters when they play the harlot,
nor your brides when they commit adultery; for <i>the men</i> themselves go apart with harlots, and they sacrifice with the prostitutes; and the people that doth not understand shall be overthrown. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Hos.4.15" data-parsed="Hos_4_15_0_0" data-passage="Hos 4.15" id="Hos.4.15"/><sup>15</sup>Though thou, Israel, play the harlot, yet let not Judah offend; and come not ye unto Gilgal, neither go ye up to Beth-aven, nor swear, As Jehovah liveth. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Hos.4.16" data-parsed="Hos_4_16_0_0" data-passage="Hos 4.16" id="Hos.4.16"/><sup>16</sup>For Israel hath behaved himself stubbornly, like a stubborn heifer: now will Jehovah feed them as a lamb in a large place. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Hos.4.17" data-parsed="Hos_4_17_0_0" data-passage="Hos 4.17" id="Hos.4.17"/><sup>17</sup>Ephraim is joined to idols; let him alone. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Hos.4.18" data-parsed="Hos_4_18_0_0" data-passage="Hos 4.18" id="Hos.4.18"/><sup>18</sup>Their drink is become sour; they play the harlot continually;
her rulers dearly love shame. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Hos.4.19" data-parsed="Hos_4_19_0_0" data-passage="Hos 4.19" id="Hos.4.19"/><sup>19</sup>The wind hath wrapped her up in its wings; and they shall be put to shame because of their sacrifices.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>