<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Hosea 5</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Hosea 5</span></div><div data-next="Hos.6" data-prev="Hos.4" data-progress="73.86%" data-shorttitle="" id="Hos.5" title="Hosea 5">
<h2 id="Hos.5-p0.1">5</h2>
<p id="Hos.5-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Hos.5.1" data-parsed="Hos_5_1_0_0" data-passage="Hos 5.1" id="Hos.5.1"/><sup>1</sup>Hear this, O ye priests, and hearken, O house of Israel, and give ear, O house of the king; for unto you pertaineth the judgment; for ye have been a snare at Mizpah, and a net spread upon Tabor. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Hos.5.2" data-parsed="Hos_5_2_0_0" data-passage="Hos 5.2" id="Hos.5.2"/><sup>2</sup>And the revolters are gone deep in making slaughter; but I am a rebuker of them all. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Hos.5.3" data-parsed="Hos_5_3_0_0" data-passage="Hos 5.3" id="Hos.5.3"/><sup>3</sup>I know Ephraim, and Israel is not hid from me; for now, O Ephraim, thou hast played the harlot, Israel is defiled. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Hos.5.4" data-parsed="Hos_5_4_0_0" data-passage="Hos 5.4" id="Hos.5.4"/><sup>4</sup>Their doings will not suffer them to turn unto their God; for the spirit of whoredom is within them, and they know not Jehovah. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Hos.5.5" data-parsed="Hos_5_5_0_0" data-passage="Hos 5.5" id="Hos.5.5"/><sup>5</sup>And the pride of Israel doth testify to his face: therefore Israel and Ephraim shall stumble in their iniquity; Judah also shall stumble with them. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Hos.5.6" data-parsed="Hos_5_6_0_0" data-passage="Hos 5.6" id="Hos.5.6"/><sup>6</sup>They shall go with their flocks and with their herds to seek Jehovah; but they shall not find him: he hath withdrawn himself from them.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Hos.5.7" data-parsed="Hos_5_7_0_0" data-passage="Hos 5.7" id="Hos.5.7"/><sup>7</sup>They have dealt treacherously against Jehovah; for they have borne strange children: now shall the new moon devour them with their fields.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Hos.5.8" data-parsed="Hos_5_8_0_0" data-passage="Hos 5.8" id="Hos.5.8"/><sup>8</sup>Blow ye the cornet in Gibeah, and the trumpet in Ramah: sound an alarm at Beth-aven; behind thee, O Benjamin. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Hos.5.9" data-parsed="Hos_5_9_0_0" data-passage="Hos 5.9" id="Hos.5.9"/><sup>9</sup>Ephraim shall become a desolation in the day of rebuke: among the tribes of Israel have I made known that which shall surely be. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Hos.5.10" data-parsed="Hos_5_10_0_0" data-passage="Hos 5.10" id="Hos.5.10"/><sup>10</sup>The princes of Judah are like them that remove the landmark: I will pour out my wrath upon them like water. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Hos.5.11" data-parsed="Hos_5_11_0_0" data-passage="Hos 5.11" id="Hos.5.11"/><sup>11</sup>Ephraim is oppressed, he is crushed in judgment; because he was content to walk after <i>man's</i> command. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Hos.5.12" data-parsed="Hos_5_12_0_0" data-passage="Hos 5.12" id="Hos.5.12"/><sup>12</sup>Therefore am I unto Ephraim as a moth, and to the house of Judah as rottenness. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Hos.5.13" data-parsed="Hos_5_13_0_0" data-passage="Hos 5.13" id="Hos.5.13"/><sup>13</sup>When Ephraim saw his sickness, and Judah <i>saw</i> his wound, then went Ephraim to Assyria, and sent to king Jareb: but he is not able to heal you, neither will he cure you of your wound. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Hos.5.14" data-parsed="Hos_5_14_0_0" data-passage="Hos 5.14" id="Hos.5.14"/><sup>14</sup>For I will be unto Ephraim as a lion, and as a young lion to the house of Judah: I, even I, will tear and go away; I will carry off, and there shall be none to deliver. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Hos.5.15" data-parsed="Hos_5_15_0_0" data-passage="Hos 5.15" id="Hos.5.15"/><sup>15</sup>I will go and return to my place, till they acknowledge their offence, and seek my face: in their affliction they will seek me earnestly.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>