<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Hosea 6</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Hosea 6</span></div><div data-next="Hos.7" data-prev="Hos.5" data-progress="73.91%" data-shorttitle="" id="Hos.6" title="Hosea 6">
<h2 id="Hos.6-p0.1">6</h2>
<p id="Hos.6-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Hos.6.1" data-parsed="Hos_6_1_0_0" data-passage="Hos 6.1" id="Hos.6.1"/><sup>1</sup>Come, and let us return unto Jehovah; for he hath torn, and he will heal us; he hath smitten, and he will bind us up. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Hos.6.2" data-parsed="Hos_6_2_0_0" data-passage="Hos 6.2" id="Hos.6.2"/><sup>2</sup>After two days will he revive us: on the third day he will raise us up, and we shall live before him. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Hos.6.3" data-parsed="Hos_6_3_0_0" data-passage="Hos 6.3" id="Hos.6.3"/><sup>3</sup>And let us know, let us follow on to know Jehovah: his going forth is sure as the morning; and he will come unto us as the rain, as the latter rain that watereth the earth. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Hos.6.4" data-parsed="Hos_6_4_0_0" data-passage="Hos 6.4" id="Hos.6.4"/><sup>4</sup>O Ephraim, what shall I do unto thee? O Judah, what shall I do unto thee? for your goodness is as a morning cloud,
and as the dew that goeth early away. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Hos.6.5" data-parsed="Hos_6_5_0_0" data-passage="Hos 6.5" id="Hos.6.5"/><sup>5</sup>Therefore have I hewed them by the prophets; I have slain them by the words of my mouth: and thy judgments are <i>as</i> the light that goeth forth. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Hos.6.6" data-parsed="Hos_6_6_0_0" data-passage="Hos 6.6" id="Hos.6.6"/><sup>6</sup>For I desire goodness, and not sacrifice; and the knowledge of God more than burnt-offerings. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Hos.6.7" data-parsed="Hos_6_7_0_0" data-passage="Hos 6.7" id="Hos.6.7"/><sup>7</sup>But they like Adam have transgressed the covenant: there have they dealt treacherously against me. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Hos.6.8" data-parsed="Hos_6_8_0_0" data-passage="Hos 6.8" id="Hos.6.8"/><sup>8</sup>Gilead is a city of them that work iniquity; it is stained with blood. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Hos.6.9" data-parsed="Hos_6_9_0_0" data-passage="Hos 6.9" id="Hos.6.9"/><sup>9</sup>And as troops of robbers wait for a man, so the company of priests murder in the way toward Shechem; yea, they have committed lewdness.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Hos.6.10" data-parsed="Hos_6_10_0_0" data-passage="Hos 6.10" id="Hos.6.10"/><sup>10</sup>In the house of Israel I have seen a horrible thing: there whoredom is <i>found</i> in Ephraim, Israel is defiled. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Hos.6.11" data-parsed="Hos_6_11_0_0" data-passage="Hos 6.11" id="Hos.6.11"/><sup>11</sup>Also, O Judah, there is a harvest appointed for thee, when I bring back the captivity of my people.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>