<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Hosea 7</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Hosea 7</span></div><div data-next="Hos.8" data-prev="Hos.6" data-progress="73.94%" data-shorttitle="" id="Hos.7" title="Hosea 7">
<h2 id="Hos.7-p0.1">7</h2>
<p id="Hos.7-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Hos.7.1" data-parsed="Hos_7_1_0_0" data-passage="Hos 7.1" id="Hos.7.1"/><sup>1</sup>When I would heal Israel, then is the iniquity of Ephraim uncovered, and the wickedness of Samaria; for they commit falsehood, and the thief entereth in, and the troop of robbers ravageth without. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Hos.7.2" data-parsed="Hos_7_2_0_0" data-passage="Hos 7.2" id="Hos.7.2"/><sup>2</sup>And they consider not in their hearts that I remember all their wickedness: now have their own doings beset them about; they are before my face. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Hos.7.3" data-parsed="Hos_7_3_0_0" data-passage="Hos 7.3" id="Hos.7.3"/><sup>3</sup>They make the king glad with their wickedness, and the princes with their lies.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Hos.7.4" data-parsed="Hos_7_4_0_0" data-passage="Hos 7.4" id="Hos.7.4"/><sup>4</sup>They are all adulterers; they are as an oven heated by the baker; he ceaseth to stir <i>the fire</i>, from the kneading of the dough, until it be leavened. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Hos.7.5" data-parsed="Hos_7_5_0_0" data-passage="Hos 7.5" id="Hos.7.5"/><sup>5</sup>On the day of our king the princes made themselves sick with the heat of wine; he stretched out his hand with scoffers. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Hos.7.6" data-parsed="Hos_7_6_0_0" data-passage="Hos 7.6" id="Hos.7.6"/><sup>6</sup>For they have made ready their heart like an oven, while they lie in wait: their baker sleepeth all the night; in the morning it burneth as a flaming fire.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Hos.7.7" data-parsed="Hos_7_7_0_0" data-passage="Hos 7.7" id="Hos.7.7"/><sup>7</sup>They are all hot as an oven, and devour their judges; all their kings are fallen: there is none among them that calleth unto me. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Hos.7.8" data-parsed="Hos_7_8_0_0" data-passage="Hos 7.8" id="Hos.7.8"/><sup>8</sup>Ephraim, he mixeth himself among the peoples; Ephraim is a cake not turned.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Hos.7.9" data-parsed="Hos_7_9_0_0" data-passage="Hos 7.9" id="Hos.7.9"/><sup>9</sup>Strangers have devoured his strength, and he knoweth <i>it</i> not:
yea, gray hairs are here and there upon him, and he knoweth <i>it</i> not.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Hos.7.10" data-parsed="Hos_7_10_0_0" data-passage="Hos 7.10" id="Hos.7.10"/><sup>10</sup>And the pride of Israel doth testify to his face: yet they have not returned unto Jehovah their God, nor sought him, for all this. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Hos.7.11" data-parsed="Hos_7_11_0_0" data-passage="Hos 7.11" id="Hos.7.11"/><sup>11</sup>And Ephraim is like a silly dove, without understanding: they call unto Egypt,
they go to Assyria. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Hos.7.12" data-parsed="Hos_7_12_0_0" data-passage="Hos 7.12" id="Hos.7.12"/><sup>12</sup>When they shall go, I will spread my net upon them;
I will bring them down as the birds of the heavens; I will chastise them, as their congregation hath heard. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Hos.7.13" data-parsed="Hos_7_13_0_0" data-passage="Hos 7.13" id="Hos.7.13"/><sup>13</sup>Woe unto them! for they have wandered from me; destruction unto them! for they have trespassed against me: though I would redeem them, yet they have spoken lies against me. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Hos.7.14" data-parsed="Hos_7_14_0_0" data-passage="Hos 7.14" id="Hos.7.14"/><sup>14</sup>And they have not cried unto me with their heart, but they howl upon their beds: they assemble themselves for grain and new wine; they rebel against me.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Hos.7.15" data-parsed="Hos_7_15_0_0" data-passage="Hos 7.15" id="Hos.7.15"/><sup>15</sup>Though I have taught and strengthened their arms, yet do they devise mischief against me. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Hos.7.16" data-parsed="Hos_7_16_0_0" data-passage="Hos 7.16" id="Hos.7.16"/><sup>16</sup>They return, but not to <i>him that is</i> on high; they are like a deceitful bow; their princes shall fall by the sword for the rage of their tongue: this shall be their derision in the land of Egypt.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>