<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Hosea 8</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Hosea 8</span></div><div data-next="Hos.9" data-prev="Hos.7" data-progress="73.99%" data-shorttitle="" id="Hos.8" title="Hosea 8">
<h2 id="Hos.8-p0.1">8</h2>
<p id="Hos.8-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Hos.8.1" data-parsed="Hos_8_1_0_0" data-passage="Hos 8.1" id="Hos.8.1"/><sup>1</sup><i>Set</i> the trumpet to thy mouth. As an eagle <i>he cometh</i>
against the house of Jehovah, because they have transgressed my covenant, and trespassed against my law. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Hos.8.2" data-parsed="Hos_8_2_0_0" data-passage="Hos 8.2" id="Hos.8.2"/><sup>2</sup>They shall cry unto me, My God, we Israel know thee. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Hos.8.3" data-parsed="Hos_8_3_0_0" data-passage="Hos 8.3" id="Hos.8.3"/><sup>3</sup>Israel hath cast off that which is good: the enemy shall pursue him. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Hos.8.4" data-parsed="Hos_8_4_0_0" data-passage="Hos 8.4" id="Hos.8.4"/><sup>4</sup>They have set up kings, but not by me; they have made princes, and I knew it not: of their silver and their gold have they made them idols, that they may be cut off. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Hos.8.5" data-parsed="Hos_8_5_0_0" data-passage="Hos 8.5" id="Hos.8.5"/><sup>5</sup>He hath cast off thy calf, O Samaria; mine anger is kindled against them: how long will it be ere they attain to innocency? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Hos.8.6" data-parsed="Hos_8_6_0_0" data-passage="Hos 8.6" id="Hos.8.6"/><sup>6</sup>For from Israel is even this; the workman made it,
and it is no God; yea, the calf of Samaria shall be broken in pieces.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Hos.8.7" data-parsed="Hos_8_7_0_0" data-passage="Hos 8.7" id="Hos.8.7"/><sup>7</sup>For they sow the wind, and they shall reap the whirlwind: he hath no standing grain; the blade shall yield no meal; if so be it yield, strangers shall swallow it up. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Hos.8.8" data-parsed="Hos_8_8_0_0" data-passage="Hos 8.8" id="Hos.8.8"/><sup>8</sup>Israel is swallowed up: now are they among the nations as a vessel wherein none delighteth. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Hos.8.9" data-parsed="Hos_8_9_0_0" data-passage="Hos 8.9" id="Hos.8.9"/><sup>9</sup>For they are gone up to Assyria, <i>like</i> a wild ass alone by himself: Ephraim hath hired lovers.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Hos.8.10" data-parsed="Hos_8_10_0_0" data-passage="Hos 8.10" id="Hos.8.10"/><sup>10</sup>Yea, though they hire among the nations, now will I gather them; and they begin to be diminished by reason of the burden of the king of princes.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Hos.8.11" data-parsed="Hos_8_11_0_0" data-passage="Hos 8.11" id="Hos.8.11"/><sup>11</sup>Because Ephraim hath multiplied altars for sinning, altars have been unto him for sinning. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Hos.8.12" data-parsed="Hos_8_12_0_0" data-passage="Hos 8.12" id="Hos.8.12"/><sup>12</sup>I wrote for him the ten thousand things of my law; but they are counted as a strange thing. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Hos.8.13" data-parsed="Hos_8_13_0_0" data-passage="Hos 8.13" id="Hos.8.13"/><sup>13</sup>As for the sacrifices of mine offerings, they sacrifice flesh and eat it; but Jehovah accepteth them not: now will he remember their iniquity, and visit their sins; they shall return to Egypt. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Hos.8.14" data-parsed="Hos_8_14_0_0" data-passage="Hos 8.14" id="Hos.8.14"/><sup>14</sup>For Israel hath forgotten his Maker, and builded palaces; and Judah hath multiplied fortified cities: but I will send a fire upon his cities, and it shall devour the castles thereof.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>