<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Hosea 9</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Hosea 9</span></div><div data-next="Hos.10" data-prev="Hos.8" data-progress="74.03%" data-shorttitle="" id="Hos.9" title="Hosea 9">
<h2 id="Hos.9-p0.1">9</h2>
<p id="Hos.9-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Hos.9.1" data-parsed="Hos_9_1_0_0" data-passage="Hos 9.1" id="Hos.9.1"/><sup>1</sup>Rejoice not, O Israel, for joy, like the peoples; for thou hast played the harlot, <i>departing</i> from thy God; thou hast loved hire upon every grain-floor. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Hos.9.2" data-parsed="Hos_9_2_0_0" data-passage="Hos 9.2" id="Hos.9.2"/><sup>2</sup>The threshing-floor and the winepress shall not feed them, and the new wine shall fail her. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Hos.9.3" data-parsed="Hos_9_3_0_0" data-passage="Hos 9.3" id="Hos.9.3"/><sup>3</sup>They shall not dwell in Jehovah's land; but Ephraim shall return to Egypt, and they shall eat unclean food in Assyria. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Hos.9.4" data-parsed="Hos_9_4_0_0" data-passage="Hos 9.4" id="Hos.9.4"/><sup>4</sup>They shall not pour out wine-offerings to Jehovah, neither shall they be pleasing unto him: their sacrifices shall be unto them as the bread of mourners; all that eat thereof shall be polluted; for their bread shall be for their appetite; it shall not come into the house of Jehovah.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Hos.9.5" data-parsed="Hos_9_5_0_0" data-passage="Hos 9.5" id="Hos.9.5"/><sup>5</sup>What will ye do in the day of solemn assembly, and in the day of the feast of Jehovah? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Hos.9.6" data-parsed="Hos_9_6_0_0" data-passage="Hos 9.6" id="Hos.9.6"/><sup>6</sup>For, lo, they are gone away from destruction;
<i>yet</i> Egypt shall gather them up, Memphis shall bury them; their pleasant things of silver, nettles shall possess them; thorns shall be in their tents. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Hos.9.7" data-parsed="Hos_9_7_0_0" data-passage="Hos 9.7" id="Hos.9.7"/><sup>7</sup>The days of visitation are come, the days of recompense are come; Israel shall know it: the prophet is a fool, the man that hath the spirit is mad, for the abundance of thine iniquity, and because the enmity is great. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Hos.9.8" data-parsed="Hos_9_8_0_0" data-passage="Hos 9.8" id="Hos.9.8"/><sup>8</sup>Ephraim <i>was</i> a watchman with my God: as for the prophet, a fowler's snare is in all his ways, <i>and</i> enmity in the house of his God. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Hos.9.9" data-parsed="Hos_9_9_0_0" data-passage="Hos 9.9" id="Hos.9.9"/><sup>9</sup>They have deeply corrupted themselves, as in the days of Gibeah: he will remember their iniquity, he will visit their sins. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Hos.9.10" data-parsed="Hos_9_10_0_0" data-passage="Hos 9.10" id="Hos.9.10"/><sup>10</sup>I found Israel like grapes in the wilderness; I saw your fathers as the first-ripe in the fig-tree at its first season: but they came to Baal-peor, and consecrated themselves unto the shameful thing, and became abominable like that which they loved. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Hos.9.11" data-parsed="Hos_9_11_0_0" data-passage="Hos 9.11" id="Hos.9.11"/><sup>11</sup>As for Ephraim, their glory shall fly away like a bird:
there shall be no birth, and none with child, and no conception. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Hos.9.12" data-parsed="Hos_9_12_0_0" data-passage="Hos 9.12" id="Hos.9.12"/><sup>12</sup>Though they bring up their children, yet will I bereave them, so that not a man shall be left: yea, woe also to them when I depart from them! 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Hos.9.13" data-parsed="Hos_9_13_0_0" data-passage="Hos 9.13" id="Hos.9.13"/><sup>13</sup>Ephraim,
like as I have seen Tyre, is planted in a pleasant place: but Ephraim shall bring out his children to the slayer. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Hos.9.14" data-parsed="Hos_9_14_0_0" data-passage="Hos 9.14" id="Hos.9.14"/><sup>14</sup>Give them, O Jehovah-what wilt thou give? give them a miscarrying womb and dry breasts. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Hos.9.15" data-parsed="Hos_9_15_0_0" data-passage="Hos 9.15" id="Hos.9.15"/><sup>15</sup>All their wickedness is in Gilgal; for there I hated them: because of the wickedness of their doings I will drive them out of my house; I will love them no more; all their princes are revolters. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Hos.9.16" data-parsed="Hos_9_16_0_0" data-passage="Hos 9.16" id="Hos.9.16"/><sup>16</sup>Ephraim is smitten, their root is dried up, they shall bear no fruit: yea, though they bring forth, yet will I slay the beloved fruit of their womb. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Hos.9.17" data-parsed="Hos_9_17_0_0" data-passage="Hos 9.17" id="Hos.9.17"/><sup>17</sup>My God will cast them away, because they did not hearken unto him; and they shall be wanderers among the nations.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>