<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>1 Chronicles 14</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">1 Chronicles 14</span></div><div data-next="iChr.15" data-prev="iChr.13" data-progress="38.18%" data-shorttitle="" id="iChr.14" title="1 Chronicles 14">
<h2 id="iChr.14-p0.1">14</h2>
<p id="iChr.14-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.14.1" data-parsed="1Chr_14_1_0_0" data-passage="iChr 14.1" id="iChr.14.1"/><sup>1</sup>And Hiram king of Tyre sent messengers to David, and cedar-trees,
and masons, and carpenters, to build him a house. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.14.2" data-parsed="1Chr_14_2_0_0" data-passage="iChr 14.2" id="iChr.14.2"/><sup>2</sup>And David perceived that Jehovah had established him king over Israel; for his kingdom was exalted on high, for his people Israel's sake.</p>
<p id="iChr.14-p2">
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.14.3" data-parsed="1Chr_14_3_0_0" data-passage="iChr 14.3" id="iChr.14.3"/><sup>3</sup>And David took more wives at Jerusalem; and David begat more sons and daughters. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.14.4" data-parsed="1Chr_14_4_0_0" data-passage="iChr 14.4" id="iChr.14.4"/><sup>4</sup>And these are the names of the children whom he had in Jerusalem: Shammua, and Shobab, Nathan, and Solomon, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.14.5" data-parsed="1Chr_14_5_0_0" data-passage="iChr 14.5" id="iChr.14.5"/><sup>5</sup>and Ibhar, and Elishua, and Elpelet, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.14.6" data-parsed="1Chr_14_6_0_0" data-passage="iChr 14.6" id="iChr.14.6"/><sup>6</sup>and Nogah, and Nepheg, and Japhia, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.14.7" data-parsed="1Chr_14_7_0_0" data-passage="iChr 14.7" id="iChr.14.7"/><sup>7</sup>and Elishama, and Beeliada, and Eliphelet.</p>
<p id="iChr.14-p3">
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.14.8" data-parsed="1Chr_14_8_0_0" data-passage="iChr 14.8" id="iChr.14.8"/><sup>8</sup>And when the Philistines heard that David was anointed king over all Israel, all the Philistines went up to seek David: and David heard of it, and went out against them. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.14.9" data-parsed="1Chr_14_9_0_0" data-passage="iChr 14.9" id="iChr.14.9"/><sup>9</sup>Now the Philistines had come and made a raid in the valley of Rephaim. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.14.10" data-parsed="1Chr_14_10_0_0" data-passage="iChr 14.10" id="iChr.14.10"/><sup>10</sup>And David inquired of God, saying, Shall I go up against the Philistines? and wilt thou deliver them into my hand? And Jehovah said unto him, Go up; for I will deliver them into thy hand. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.14.11" data-parsed="1Chr_14_11_0_0" data-passage="iChr 14.11" id="iChr.14.11"/><sup>11</sup>So they came up to Baal-perazim, and David smote them there; and David said, God hath broken mine enemies by my hand, like the breach of waters. Therefore they called the name of that place Baal-perazim. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.14.12" data-parsed="1Chr_14_12_0_0" data-passage="iChr 14.12" id="iChr.14.12"/><sup>12</sup>And they left their gods there; and David gave commandment, and they were burned with fire.</p>
<p id="iChr.14-p4">
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.14.13" data-parsed="1Chr_14_13_0_0" data-passage="iChr 14.13" id="iChr.14.13"/><sup>13</sup>And the Philistines yet again made a raid in the valley. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.14.14" data-parsed="1Chr_14_14_0_0" data-passage="iChr 14.14" id="iChr.14.14"/><sup>14</sup>And David inquired again of God; and God said unto him, Thou shalt not go up after them: turn away from them, and come upon them over against the mulberry-trees. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.14.15" data-parsed="1Chr_14_15_0_0" data-passage="iChr 14.15" id="iChr.14.15"/><sup>15</sup>And it shall be, when thou hearest the sound of marching in the tops of the mulberry-trees, that then thou shalt go out to battle; for God is gone out before thee to smite the host of the Philistines.

<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.14.16" data-parsed="1Chr_14_16_0_0" data-passage="iChr 14.16" id="iChr.14.16"/><sup>16</sup>And David did as God commanded him: and they smote the host of the Philistines from Gibeon even to Gezer. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.14.17" data-parsed="1Chr_14_17_0_0" data-passage="iChr 14.17" id="iChr.14.17"/><sup>17</sup>And the fame of David went out into all lands; and Jehovah brought the fear of him upon all nations.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>