<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>1 Chronicles 18</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">1 Chronicles 18</span></div><div data-next="iChr.19" data-prev="iChr.17" data-progress="38.53%" data-shorttitle="" id="iChr.18" title="1 Chronicles 18">
<h2 id="iChr.18-p0.1">18</h2>
<p id="iChr.18-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.18.1" data-parsed="1Chr_18_1_0_0" data-passage="iChr 18.1" id="iChr.18.1"/><sup>1</sup>And after this it came to pass, that David smote the Philistines,
and subdued them, and took Gath and its towns out of the hand of the Philistines. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.18.2" data-parsed="1Chr_18_2_0_0" data-passage="iChr 18.2" id="iChr.18.2"/><sup>2</sup>And he smote Moab; and the Moabites became servants to David, and brought tribute.</p>
<p id="iChr.18-p2">
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.18.3" data-parsed="1Chr_18_3_0_0" data-passage="iChr 18.3" id="iChr.18.3"/><sup>3</sup>And David smote Hadarezer king of Zobah unto Hamath, as he went to establish his dominion by the river Euphrates. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.18.4" data-parsed="1Chr_18_4_0_0" data-passage="iChr 18.4" id="iChr.18.4"/><sup>4</sup>And David took from him a thousand chariots, and seven thousand horsemen, and twenty thousand footmen;
and David hocked all the chariot horses, but reserved of them for a hundred chariots.</p>
<p id="iChr.18-p3">
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.18.5" data-parsed="1Chr_18_5_0_0" data-passage="iChr 18.5" id="iChr.18.5"/><sup>5</sup>And when the Syrians of Damascus came to succor Hadarezer king of Zobah,
David smote of the Syrians two and twenty thousand men. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.18.6" data-parsed="1Chr_18_6_0_0" data-passage="iChr 18.6" id="iChr.18.6"/><sup>6</sup>Then David put <i>garrisons</i> in Syria of Damascus; and the Syrians became servants to David, and brought tribute. And Jehovah gave victory to David whithersoever he went. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.18.7" data-parsed="1Chr_18_7_0_0" data-passage="iChr 18.7" id="iChr.18.7"/><sup>7</sup>And David took the shields of gold that were on the servants of Hadarezer, and brought them to Jerusalem. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.18.8" data-parsed="1Chr_18_8_0_0" data-passage="iChr 18.8" id="iChr.18.8"/><sup>8</sup>And from Tibhath and from Cun,
cities of Hadarezer, David took very much brass, wherewith Solomon made the brazen sea, and the pillars, and the vessels of brass.</p>
<p id="iChr.18-p4">
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.18.9" data-parsed="1Chr_18_9_0_0" data-passage="iChr 18.9" id="iChr.18.9"/><sup>9</sup>And when Tou king of Hamath heard that David had smitten all the host of Hadarezer king of Zobah, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.18.10" data-parsed="1Chr_18_10_0_0" data-passage="iChr 18.10" id="iChr.18.10"/><sup>10</sup>he sent Hadoram his son to king David, to salute him, and to bless him, because he had fought against Hadarezer and smitten him; (for Hadarezer had wars with Tou;) and <i>he had with him</i>
all manner of vessels of gold and silver and brass. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.18.11" data-parsed="1Chr_18_11_0_0" data-passage="iChr 18.11" id="iChr.18.11"/><sup>11</sup>These also did king David dedicate unto Jehovah, with the silver and the gold that he carried away from all the nations; from Edom, and from Moab, and from the children of Ammon, and from the Philistines, and from Amalek.</p>
<p id="iChr.18-p5">
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.18.12" data-parsed="1Chr_18_12_0_0" data-passage="iChr 18.12" id="iChr.18.12"/><sup>12</sup>Moreover Abishai the son of Zeruiah smote of the Edomites in the Valley of Salt eighteen thousand. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.18.13" data-parsed="1Chr_18_13_0_0" data-passage="iChr 18.13" id="iChr.18.13"/><sup>13</sup>And he put garrisons in Edom; and all the Edomites became servants to David. And Jehovah gave victory to David whithersoever he went.</p>
<p id="iChr.18-p6">
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.18.14" data-parsed="1Chr_18_14_0_0" data-passage="iChr 18.14" id="iChr.18.14"/><sup>14</sup>And David reigned over all Israel; and he executed justice and righteousness unto all his people. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.18.15" data-parsed="1Chr_18_15_0_0" data-passage="iChr 18.15" id="iChr.18.15"/><sup>15</sup>And Joab the son of Zeruiah was over the host; and Jehoshaphat the son of Ahilud was recorder; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.18.16" data-parsed="1Chr_18_16_0_0" data-passage="iChr 18.16" id="iChr.18.16"/><sup>16</sup>and Zadok the son of Ahitub, and Abimelech the son of Abiathar, were priests; and Shavsha was scribe; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.18.17" data-parsed="1Chr_18_17_0_0" data-passage="iChr 18.17" id="iChr.18.17"/><sup>17</sup>and Benaiah the son of Jehoiada was over the Cherethites and the Pelethites; and the sons of David were chief about the king.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>