<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>1 Chronicles 15</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">1 Chronicles 15</span></div><div data-next="iChr.16" data-prev="iChr.14" data-progress="38.23%" data-shorttitle="" id="iChr.15" title="1 Chronicles 15">
<h2 id="iChr.15-p0.1">15</h2>
<p id="iChr.15-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.15.1" data-parsed="1Chr_15_1_0_0" data-passage="iChr 15.1" id="iChr.15.1"/><sup>1</sup>And <i>David</i> made him houses in the city of David; and he prepared a place for the ark of God, and pitched for it a tent. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.15.2" data-parsed="1Chr_15_2_0_0" data-passage="iChr 15.2" id="iChr.15.2"/><sup>2</sup>Then David said, None ought to carry the ark of God but the Levites: for them hath Jehovah chosen to carry the ark of God, and to minister unto him for ever.

<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.15.3" data-parsed="1Chr_15_3_0_0" data-passage="iChr 15.3" id="iChr.15.3"/><sup>3</sup>And David assembled all Israel at Jerusalem, to bring up the ark of Jehovah unto its place, which he had prepared for it. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.15.4" data-parsed="1Chr_15_4_0_0" data-passage="iChr 15.4" id="iChr.15.4"/><sup>4</sup>And David gathered together the sons of Aaron, and the Levites: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.15.5" data-parsed="1Chr_15_5_0_0" data-passage="iChr 15.5" id="iChr.15.5"/><sup>5</sup>of the sons of Kohath,
Uriel the chief, and his brethren a hundred and twenty; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.15.6" data-parsed="1Chr_15_6_0_0" data-passage="iChr 15.6" id="iChr.15.6"/><sup>6</sup>of the sons of Merari, Asaiah the chief, and his brethren two hundred and twenty; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.15.7" data-parsed="1Chr_15_7_0_0" data-passage="iChr 15.7" id="iChr.15.7"/><sup>7</sup>of the sons of Gershom, Joel the chief, and his brethren a hundred and thirty;

<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.15.8" data-parsed="1Chr_15_8_0_0" data-passage="iChr 15.8" id="iChr.15.8"/><sup>8</sup>of the sons of Elizaphan, Shemaiah the chief, and his brethren two hundred; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.15.9" data-parsed="1Chr_15_9_0_0" data-passage="iChr 15.9" id="iChr.15.9"/><sup>9</sup>of the sons of Hebron, Eliel the chief, and his brethren fourscore; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.15.10" data-parsed="1Chr_15_10_0_0" data-passage="iChr 15.10" id="iChr.15.10"/><sup>10</sup>of the sons of Uzziel, Amminadab the chief, and his brethren a hundred and twelve. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.15.11" data-parsed="1Chr_15_11_0_0" data-passage="iChr 15.11" id="iChr.15.11"/><sup>11</sup>And David called for Zadok and Abiathar the priests, and for the Levites, for Uriel, Asaiah, and Joel, Shemaiah, and Eliel, and Amminadab, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.15.12" data-parsed="1Chr_15_12_0_0" data-passage="iChr 15.12" id="iChr.15.12"/><sup>12</sup>and said unto them, Ye are the heads of the fathers' <i>houses</i> of the Levites: sanctify yourselves, both ye and your brethren, that ye may bring up the ark of Jehovah, the God of Israel, unto <i>the place</i> that I have prepared for it. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.15.13" data-parsed="1Chr_15_13_0_0" data-passage="iChr 15.13" id="iChr.15.13"/><sup>13</sup>For because ye <i>bare it</i> not at the first, Jehovah our God made a breach upon us, for that we sought him not according to the ordinance. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.15.14" data-parsed="1Chr_15_14_0_0" data-passage="iChr 15.14" id="iChr.15.14"/><sup>14</sup>So the priests and the Levites sanctified themselves to bring up the ark of Jehovah, the God of Israel. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.15.15" data-parsed="1Chr_15_15_0_0" data-passage="iChr 15.15" id="iChr.15.15"/><sup>15</sup>And the children of the Levites bare the ark of God upon their shoulders with the staves thereon, as Moses commanded according to the word of Jehovah.</p>
<p id="iChr.15-p2">
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.15.16" data-parsed="1Chr_15_16_0_0" data-passage="iChr 15.16" id="iChr.15.16"/><sup>16</sup>And David spake to the chief of the Levites to appoint their brethren the singers, with instruments of music, psalteries and harps and cymbals,
sounding aloud and lifting up the voice with joy. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.15.17" data-parsed="1Chr_15_17_0_0" data-passage="iChr 15.17" id="iChr.15.17"/><sup>17</sup>So the Levites appointed Heman the son of Joel; and of his brethren, Asaph the son of Berechiah; and of the sons of Merari their brethren, Ethan the son of Kushaiah; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.15.18" data-parsed="1Chr_15_18_0_0" data-passage="iChr 15.18" id="iChr.15.18"/><sup>18</sup>and with them their brethren of the second degree, Zechariah,
Ben, and Jaaziel, and Shemiramoth, and Jehiel, and Unni, Eliab, and Benaiah,
and Maaseiah, and Mattithiah, and Eliphelehu, and Mikneiah, and Obed-edom,
and Jeiel, the doorkeepers. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.15.19" data-parsed="1Chr_15_19_0_0" data-passage="iChr 15.19" id="iChr.15.19"/><sup>19</sup>So the singers, Heman, Asaph, and Ethan,
<i>were appointed</i> with cymbals of brass to sound aloud; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.15.20" data-parsed="1Chr_15_20_0_0" data-passage="iChr 15.20" id="iChr.15.20"/><sup>20</sup>and Zechariah, and Aziel, and Shemiramoth, and Jehiel, and Unni, and Eliab, and Maaseiah, and Benaiah, with psalteries set to Alamoth; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.15.21" data-parsed="1Chr_15_21_0_0" data-passage="iChr 15.21" id="iChr.15.21"/><sup>21</sup>and Mattithiah,
and Eliphelehu, and Mikneiah, and Obed-edom, and Jeiel, and Azaziah, with harps set to the Sheminith, to lead. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.15.22" data-parsed="1Chr_15_22_0_0" data-passage="iChr 15.22" id="iChr.15.22"/><sup>22</sup>And Chenaniah, chief of the Levites, was over the song: he instructed about the song, because he was skilful. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.15.23" data-parsed="1Chr_15_23_0_0" data-passage="iChr 15.23" id="iChr.15.23"/><sup>23</sup>And Berechiah and Elkanah were doorkeepers for the ark.

<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.15.24" data-parsed="1Chr_15_24_0_0" data-passage="iChr 15.24" id="iChr.15.24"/><sup>24</sup>And Shebaniah, and Joshaphat, and Nethanel, and Amasai, and Zechariah,
and Benaiah, and Eliezer, the priests, did blow the trumpets before the ark of God: and Obed-edom and Jehiah were doorkeepers for the ark.</p>
<p id="iChr.15-p3">
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.15.25" data-parsed="1Chr_15_25_0_0" data-passage="iChr 15.25" id="iChr.15.25"/><sup>25</sup>So David, and the elders of Israel, and the captains over thousands,
went to bring up the ark of the covenant of Jehovah out of the house of Obed-edom with joy. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.15.26" data-parsed="1Chr_15_26_0_0" data-passage="iChr 15.26" id="iChr.15.26"/><sup>26</sup>And it came to pass, when God helped the Levites that bare the ark of the covenant of Jehovah, that they sacrificed seven bullocks and seven rams. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.15.27" data-parsed="1Chr_15_27_0_0" data-passage="iChr 15.27" id="iChr.15.27"/><sup>27</sup>And David was clothed with a robe of fine linen, and all the Levites that bare the ark, and the singers, and Chenaniah the master of the song <i>with</i> the singers: and David had upon him an ephod of linen. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.15.28" data-parsed="1Chr_15_28_0_0" data-passage="iChr 15.28" id="iChr.15.28"/><sup>28</sup>Thus all Israel brought up the ark of the covenant of Jehovah with shouting, and with sound of the cornet, and with trumpets, and with cymbals, sounding aloud with psalteries and harps.</p>
<p id="iChr.15-p4">
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.15.29" data-parsed="1Chr_15_29_0_0" data-passage="iChr 15.29" id="iChr.15.29"/><sup>29</sup>And it came to pass, as the ark of the covenant of Jehovah came to the city of David, that Michal the daughter of Saul looked out at the window, and saw king David dancing and playing; and she despised him in her heart.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>