<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>1 Chronicles 11</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">1 Chronicles 11</span></div><div data-next="iChr.12" data-prev="iChr.10" data-progress="37.88%" data-shorttitle="" id="iChr.11" title="1 Chronicles 11">
<h2 id="iChr.11-p0.1">11</h2>
<p id="iChr.11-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.11.1" data-parsed="1Chr_11_1_0_0" data-passage="iChr 11.1" id="iChr.11.1"/><sup>1</sup>Then all Israel gathered themselves to David unto Hebron, saying,
Behold, we are thy bone and thy flesh. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.11.2" data-parsed="1Chr_11_2_0_0" data-passage="iChr 11.2" id="iChr.11.2"/><sup>2</sup>In times past, even when Saul was king, it was thou that leddest out and broughtest in Israel: and Jehovah thy God said unto thee, Thou shalt be shepherd of my people Israel, and thou shalt be prince over my people Israel. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.11.3" data-parsed="1Chr_11_3_0_0" data-passage="iChr 11.3" id="iChr.11.3"/><sup>3</sup>So all the elders of Israel came to the king to Hebron; and David made a covenant with them in Hebron before Jehovah; and they anointed David king over Israel, according to the word of Jehovah by Samuel.</p>
<p id="iChr.11-p2">
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.11.4" data-parsed="1Chr_11_4_0_0" data-passage="iChr 11.4" id="iChr.11.4"/><sup>4</sup>And David and all Israel went to Jerusalem (the same is Jebus); and the Jebusites, the inhabitants of the land, were there. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.11.5" data-parsed="1Chr_11_5_0_0" data-passage="iChr 11.5" id="iChr.11.5"/><sup>5</sup>And the inhabitants of Jebus said to David, Thou shalt not come in hither. Nevertheless David took the stronghold of Zion; the same is the city of David. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.11.6" data-parsed="1Chr_11_6_0_0" data-passage="iChr 11.6" id="iChr.11.6"/><sup>6</sup>And David said, Whosoever smiteth the Jebusites first shall be chief and captain. And Joab the son of Zeruiah went up first, and was made chief. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.11.7" data-parsed="1Chr_11_7_0_0" data-passage="iChr 11.7" id="iChr.11.7"/><sup>7</sup>And David dwelt in the stronghold; therefore they called it the city of David. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.11.8" data-parsed="1Chr_11_8_0_0" data-passage="iChr 11.8" id="iChr.11.8"/><sup>8</sup>And he built the city round about, from Millo even round about; and Joab repaired the rest of the city. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.11.9" data-parsed="1Chr_11_9_0_0" data-passage="iChr 11.9" id="iChr.11.9"/><sup>9</sup>And David waxed greater and greater; for Jehovah of hosts was with him.</p>
<p id="iChr.11-p3">
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.11.10" data-parsed="1Chr_11_10_0_0" data-passage="iChr 11.10" id="iChr.11.10"/><sup>10</sup>Now these are the chief of the mighty men whom David had, who showed themselves strong with him in his kingdom, together with all Israel, to make him king, according to the word of Jehovah concerning Israel. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.11.11" data-parsed="1Chr_11_11_0_0" data-passage="iChr 11.11" id="iChr.11.11"/><sup>11</sup>And this is the number of the mighty men whom David had: Jashobeam, the son of a Hachmonite, the chief of the thirty; he lifted up his spear against three hundred and slew them at one time. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.11.12" data-parsed="1Chr_11_12_0_0" data-passage="iChr 11.12" id="iChr.11.12"/><sup>12</sup>And after him was Eleazar the son of Dodo, the Ahohite, who was one of the three mighty men. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.11.13" data-parsed="1Chr_11_13_0_0" data-passage="iChr 11.13" id="iChr.11.13"/><sup>13</sup>He was with David at Pasdammim, and there the Philistines were gathered together to battle, where was a plot of ground full of barley; and the people fled from before the Philistines. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.11.14" data-parsed="1Chr_11_14_0_0" data-passage="iChr 11.14" id="iChr.11.14"/><sup>14</sup>And they stood in the midst of the plot, and defended it, and slew the Philistines; and Jehovah saved them by a great victory.</p>
<p id="iChr.11-p4">
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.11.15" data-parsed="1Chr_11_15_0_0" data-passage="iChr 11.15" id="iChr.11.15"/><sup>15</sup>And three of the thirty chief men went down to the rock to David, into the cave of Adullam; and the host of the Philistines were encamped in the valley of Rephaim. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.11.16" data-parsed="1Chr_11_16_0_0" data-passage="iChr 11.16" id="iChr.11.16"/><sup>16</sup>And David was then in the stronghold, and the garrison of the Philistines was then in Beth-lehem. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.11.17" data-parsed="1Chr_11_17_0_0" data-passage="iChr 11.17" id="iChr.11.17"/><sup>17</sup>And David longed,
and said, Oh that one would give me water to drink of the well of Beth-lehem,
which is by the gate! 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.11.18" data-parsed="1Chr_11_18_0_0" data-passage="iChr 11.18" id="iChr.11.18"/><sup>18</sup>And the three brake through the host of the Philistines, and drew water out of the well of Beth-lehem, that was by the gate, and took it, and brought it to David: but David would not drink thereof, but poured it out unto Jehovah, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.11.19" data-parsed="1Chr_11_19_0_0" data-passage="iChr 11.19" id="iChr.11.19"/><sup>19</sup>and said, My God forbid it me,
that I should do this: shall I drink the blood of these men that have put their lives in jeopardy? for with <i>the jeopardy of</i> their lives they brought it. Therefore he would not drink it. These things did the three mighty men.</p>
<p id="iChr.11-p5">
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.11.20" data-parsed="1Chr_11_20_0_0" data-passage="iChr 11.20" id="iChr.11.20"/><sup>20</sup>And Abishai, the brother of Joab, he was chief of the three; for he lifted up his spear against three hundred and slew them, and had a name among the three. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.11.21" data-parsed="1Chr_11_21_0_0" data-passage="iChr 11.21" id="iChr.11.21"/><sup>21</sup>Of the three, he was more honorable than the two, and was made their captain: howbeit he attained not to the <i>first</i> three.</p>
<p id="iChr.11-p6">
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.11.22" data-parsed="1Chr_11_22_0_0" data-passage="iChr 11.22" id="iChr.11.22"/><sup>22</sup>Benaiah the son of Jehoiada, the son of a valiant man of Kabzeel, who had done mighty deeds, he slew the two <i>sons of</i> Ariel of Moab: he went down also and slew a lion in the midst of a pit in time of snow. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.11.23" data-parsed="1Chr_11_23_0_0" data-passage="iChr 11.23" id="iChr.11.23"/><sup>23</sup>And he slew an Egyptian, a man of great stature, five cubits high; and in the Egyptian's hand was a spear like a weaver's beam; and he went down to him with a staff, and plucked the spear out of the Egyptian's hand, and slew him with his own spear. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.11.24" data-parsed="1Chr_11_24_0_0" data-passage="iChr 11.24" id="iChr.11.24"/><sup>24</sup>These things did Benaiah the son of Jehoiada, and had a name among the three mighty men. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.11.25" data-parsed="1Chr_11_25_0_0" data-passage="iChr 11.25" id="iChr.11.25"/><sup>25</sup>Behold, he was more honorable than the thirty, but he attained not to the <i>first</i> three: and David set him over his guard.</p>
<p id="iChr.11-p7">
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.11.26" data-parsed="1Chr_11_26_0_0" data-passage="iChr 11.26" id="iChr.11.26"/><sup>26</sup>Also the mighty men of the armies: Asahel the brother of Joab, Elhanan the son of Dodo of Beth-lehem, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.11.27" data-parsed="1Chr_11_27_0_0" data-passage="iChr 11.27" id="iChr.11.27"/><sup>27</sup>Shammoth the Harorite, Helez the Pelonite, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.11.28" data-parsed="1Chr_11_28_0_0" data-passage="iChr 11.28" id="iChr.11.28"/><sup>28</sup>Ira the son of Ikkesh the Tekoite, Abiezer the Anathothite,

<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.11.29" data-parsed="1Chr_11_29_0_0" data-passage="iChr 11.29" id="iChr.11.29"/><sup>29</sup>Sibbecai the Hushathite, Ilai the Ahohite, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.11.30" data-parsed="1Chr_11_30_0_0" data-passage="iChr 11.30" id="iChr.11.30"/><sup>30</sup>Maharai the Netophathite, Heled the son of Baanah the Netophathite, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.11.31" data-parsed="1Chr_11_31_0_0" data-passage="iChr 11.31" id="iChr.11.31"/><sup>31</sup>Ithai the son of Ribai of Gibeah of the children of Benjamin, Benaiah the Pirathonite,

<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.11.32" data-parsed="1Chr_11_32_0_0" data-passage="iChr 11.32" id="iChr.11.32"/><sup>32</sup>Hurai of the brooks of Gaash, Abiel the Arbathite, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.11.33" data-parsed="1Chr_11_33_0_0" data-passage="iChr 11.33" id="iChr.11.33"/><sup>33</sup>Azmaveth the Baharumite, Eliahba the Shaalbonite, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.11.34" data-parsed="1Chr_11_34_0_0" data-passage="iChr 11.34" id="iChr.11.34"/><sup>34</sup>the sons of Hashem the Gizonite,
Jonathan the son of Shagee the Hararite, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.11.35" data-parsed="1Chr_11_35_0_0" data-passage="iChr 11.35" id="iChr.11.35"/><sup>35</sup>Ahiam the son of Sacar the Hararite, Eliphal the son of Ur, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.11.36" data-parsed="1Chr_11_36_0_0" data-passage="iChr 11.36" id="iChr.11.36"/><sup>36</sup>Hepher the Mecherathite, Ahijah the Pelonite, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.11.37" data-parsed="1Chr_11_37_0_0" data-passage="iChr 11.37" id="iChr.11.37"/><sup>37</sup>Hezro the Carmelite, Naarai the son of Ezbai, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.11.38" data-parsed="1Chr_11_38_0_0" data-passage="iChr 11.38" id="iChr.11.38"/><sup>38</sup>Joel the brother of Nathan, Mibhar the son of Hagri, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.11.39" data-parsed="1Chr_11_39_0_0" data-passage="iChr 11.39" id="iChr.11.39"/><sup>39</sup>Zelek the Ammonite, Naharai the Berothite, the armorbearer of Joab the son of Zeruiah, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.11.40" data-parsed="1Chr_11_40_0_0" data-passage="iChr 11.40" id="iChr.11.40"/><sup>40</sup>Ira the Ithrite, Gareb the Ithrite, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.11.41" data-parsed="1Chr_11_41_0_0" data-passage="iChr 11.41" id="iChr.11.41"/><sup>41</sup>Uriah the Hittite, Zabad the son of Ahlai,

<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.11.42" data-parsed="1Chr_11_42_0_0" data-passage="iChr 11.42" id="iChr.11.42"/><sup>42</sup>Adina the son of Shiza the Reubenite, a chief of the Reubenites, and thirty with him, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.11.43" data-parsed="1Chr_11_43_0_0" data-passage="iChr 11.43" id="iChr.11.43"/><sup>43</sup>Hanan the son of Maacah, and Joshaphat the Mithnite,

<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.11.44" data-parsed="1Chr_11_44_0_0" data-passage="iChr 11.44" id="iChr.11.44"/><sup>44</sup>Uzzia the Ashterathite, Shama and Jeiel the sons of Hotham the Aroerite, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.11.45" data-parsed="1Chr_11_45_0_0" data-passage="iChr 11.45" id="iChr.11.45"/><sup>45</sup>Jediael the son of Shimri, and Joha his brother, the Tizite,

<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.11.46" data-parsed="1Chr_11_46_0_0" data-passage="iChr 11.46" id="iChr.11.46"/><sup>46</sup>Eliel the Mahavite, and Jeribai, and Joshaviah, the sons of Elnaam, and Ithmah the Moabite, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.11.47" data-parsed="1Chr_11_47_0_0" data-passage="iChr 11.47" id="iChr.11.47"/><sup>47</sup>Eliel, and Obed, and Jaasiel the Mezobaite.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>