<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>1 Chronicles 6</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">1 Chronicles 6</span></div><div data-next="iChr.7" data-prev="iChr.5" data-progress="37.35%" data-shorttitle="" id="iChr.6" title="1 Chronicles 6">
<h2 id="iChr.6-p0.1">6</h2>
<p id="iChr.6-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.6.1" data-parsed="1Chr_6_1_0_0" data-passage="iChr 6.1" id="iChr.6.1"/><sup>1</sup>The sons of Levi: Gershon, Kohath, and Merari. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.6.2" data-parsed="1Chr_6_2_0_0" data-passage="iChr 6.2" id="iChr.6.2"/><sup>2</sup>And the sons of Kohath: Amram, Izhar, and Hebron, and Uzziel. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.6.3" data-parsed="1Chr_6_3_0_0" data-passage="iChr 6.3" id="iChr.6.3"/><sup>3</sup>And the children of Amram:
Aaron, and Moses, and Miriam. And the sons of Aaron: Nadab, and Abihu,
Eleazar, and Ithamar. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.6.4" data-parsed="1Chr_6_4_0_0" data-passage="iChr 6.4" id="iChr.6.4"/><sup>4</sup>Eleazar begat Phinehas, Phinehas begat Abishua,

<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.6.5" data-parsed="1Chr_6_5_0_0" data-passage="iChr 6.5" id="iChr.6.5"/><sup>5</sup>and Abishua begat Bukki, and Bukki begat Uzzi, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.6.6" data-parsed="1Chr_6_6_0_0" data-passage="iChr 6.6" id="iChr.6.6"/><sup>6</sup>and Uzzi begat Zerahiah, and Zerahiah begat Meraioth, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.6.7" data-parsed="1Chr_6_7_0_0" data-passage="iChr 6.7" id="iChr.6.7"/><sup>7</sup>Meraioth begat Amariah, and Amariah begat Ahitub, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.6.8" data-parsed="1Chr_6_8_0_0" data-passage="iChr 6.8" id="iChr.6.8"/><sup>8</sup>and Ahitub begat Zadok, and Zadok begat Ahimaaz,

<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.6.9" data-parsed="1Chr_6_9_0_0" data-passage="iChr 6.9" id="iChr.6.9"/><sup>9</sup>and Ahimaaz begat Azariah, and Azariah begat Johanan, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.6.10" data-parsed="1Chr_6_10_0_0" data-passage="iChr 6.10" id="iChr.6.10"/><sup>10</sup>and Johanan begat Azariah, (he it is that executed the priest's office in the house that Solomon built in Jerusalem), 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.6.11" data-parsed="1Chr_6_11_0_0" data-passage="iChr 6.11" id="iChr.6.11"/><sup>11</sup>and Azariah begat Amariah, and Amariah begat Ahitub, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.6.12" data-parsed="1Chr_6_12_0_0" data-passage="iChr 6.12" id="iChr.6.12"/><sup>12</sup>and Ahitub begat Zadok, and Zadok begat Shallum,

<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.6.13" data-parsed="1Chr_6_13_0_0" data-passage="iChr 6.13" id="iChr.6.13"/><sup>13</sup>and Shallum begat Hilkiah, and Hilkiah begat Azariah, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.6.14" data-parsed="1Chr_6_14_0_0" data-passage="iChr 6.14" id="iChr.6.14"/><sup>14</sup>and Azariah begat Seraiah, and Seraiah begat Jehozadak; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.6.15" data-parsed="1Chr_6_15_0_0" data-passage="iChr 6.15" id="iChr.6.15"/><sup>15</sup>And Jehozadak went <i>into captivity</i>, when Jehovah carried away Judah and Jerusalem by the hand of Nebuchadnezzar.</p>
<p id="iChr.6-p2">
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.6.16" data-parsed="1Chr_6_16_0_0" data-passage="iChr 6.16" id="iChr.6.16"/><sup>16</sup>The sons of Levi: Gershom, Kohath, and Merari. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.6.17" data-parsed="1Chr_6_17_0_0" data-passage="iChr 6.17" id="iChr.6.17"/><sup>17</sup>And these are the names of the sons of Gershom: Libni and Shimei. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.6.18" data-parsed="1Chr_6_18_0_0" data-passage="iChr 6.18" id="iChr.6.18"/><sup>18</sup>And the sons of Kohath were Amram, and Izhar, and Hebron, and Uzziel. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.6.19" data-parsed="1Chr_6_19_0_0" data-passage="iChr 6.19" id="iChr.6.19"/><sup>19</sup>The sons of Merari:
Mahli and Mushi. And these are the families of the Levites according to their fathers' <i>houses</i>. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.6.20" data-parsed="1Chr_6_20_0_0" data-passage="iChr 6.20" id="iChr.6.20"/><sup>20</sup>Of Gershom: Libni his son, Jahath his son,
Zimmah his son, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.6.21" data-parsed="1Chr_6_21_0_0" data-passage="iChr 6.21" id="iChr.6.21"/><sup>21</sup>Joah his son, Iddo his son, Zerah his son, Jeatherai his son. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.6.22" data-parsed="1Chr_6_22_0_0" data-passage="iChr 6.22" id="iChr.6.22"/><sup>22</sup>The sons of Kohath: Amminadab his son, Korah his son, Assir his son, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.6.23" data-parsed="1Chr_6_23_0_0" data-passage="iChr 6.23" id="iChr.6.23"/><sup>23</sup>Elkanah his son, and Ebiasaph his son, and Assir his son,

<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.6.24" data-parsed="1Chr_6_24_0_0" data-passage="iChr 6.24" id="iChr.6.24"/><sup>24</sup>Tahath his son, Uriel his son, Uzziah his son, and Shaul his son.

<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.6.25" data-parsed="1Chr_6_25_0_0" data-passage="iChr 6.25" id="iChr.6.25"/><sup>25</sup>And the sons of Elkanah: Amasai, and Ahimoth. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.6.26" data-parsed="1Chr_6_26_0_0" data-passage="iChr 6.26" id="iChr.6.26"/><sup>26</sup>As for Elkanah, the sons of Elkanah: Zophai his son, and Nahath his son, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.6.27" data-parsed="1Chr_6_27_0_0" data-passage="iChr 6.27" id="iChr.6.27"/><sup>27</sup>Eliab his son,
Jeroham his son, Elkanah his son. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.6.28" data-parsed="1Chr_6_28_0_0" data-passage="iChr 6.28" id="iChr.6.28"/><sup>28</sup>And the sons of Samuel: the first-born <i>Joel</i>, and the second Abijah. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.6.29" data-parsed="1Chr_6_29_0_0" data-passage="iChr 6.29" id="iChr.6.29"/><sup>29</sup>The sons of Merari:
Mahli, Libni his son, Shimei his son, Uzzah his son, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.6.30" data-parsed="1Chr_6_30_0_0" data-passage="iChr 6.30" id="iChr.6.30"/><sup>30</sup>Shimea his son,
Haggiah his son, Asaiah his son.</p>
<p id="iChr.6-p3">
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.6.31" data-parsed="1Chr_6_31_0_0" data-passage="iChr 6.31" id="iChr.6.31"/><sup>31</sup>And these are they whom David set over the service of song in the house of Jehovah, after that the ark had rest. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.6.32" data-parsed="1Chr_6_32_0_0" data-passage="iChr 6.32" id="iChr.6.32"/><sup>32</sup>And they ministered with song before the tabernacle of the tent of meeting, until Solomon had built the house of Jehovah in Jerusalem: and they waited on their office according to their order. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.6.33" data-parsed="1Chr_6_33_0_0" data-passage="iChr 6.33" id="iChr.6.33"/><sup>33</sup>And these are they that waited, and their sons. Of the sons of the Kohathites: Heman the singer, the son of Joel, the son of Samuel,

<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.6.34" data-parsed="1Chr_6_34_0_0" data-passage="iChr 6.34" id="iChr.6.34"/><sup>34</sup>the son of Elkanah, the son of Jeroham, the son of Eliel, the son of Toah, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.6.35" data-parsed="1Chr_6_35_0_0" data-passage="iChr 6.35" id="iChr.6.35"/><sup>35</sup>the son of Zuph, the son of Elkanah, the son of Mahath, the son of Amasai, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.6.36" data-parsed="1Chr_6_36_0_0" data-passage="iChr 6.36" id="iChr.6.36"/><sup>36</sup>the son of Elkanah, the son of Joel, the son of Azariah, the son of Zephaniah, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.6.37" data-parsed="1Chr_6_37_0_0" data-passage="iChr 6.37" id="iChr.6.37"/><sup>37</sup>the son of Tahath, the son of Assir, the son of Ebiasaph, the son of Korah, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.6.38" data-parsed="1Chr_6_38_0_0" data-passage="iChr 6.38" id="iChr.6.38"/><sup>38</sup>the son of Izhar, the son of Kohath, the son of Levi, the son of Israel. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.6.39" data-parsed="1Chr_6_39_0_0" data-passage="iChr 6.39" id="iChr.6.39"/><sup>39</sup>And his brother Asaph, who stood on his right hand, even Asaph the son of Berechiah, the son of Shimea, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.6.40" data-parsed="1Chr_6_40_0_0" data-passage="iChr 6.40" id="iChr.6.40"/><sup>40</sup>the son of Michael, the son of Baaseiah, the son of Malchijah, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.6.41" data-parsed="1Chr_6_41_0_0" data-passage="iChr 6.41" id="iChr.6.41"/><sup>41</sup>the son of Ethni, the son of Zerah, the son of Adaiah, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.6.42" data-parsed="1Chr_6_42_0_0" data-passage="iChr 6.42" id="iChr.6.42"/><sup>42</sup>the son of Ethan, the son of Zimmah, the son of Shimei, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.6.43" data-parsed="1Chr_6_43_0_0" data-passage="iChr 6.43" id="iChr.6.43"/><sup>43</sup>the son of Jahath, the son of Gershom,
the son of Levi. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.6.44" data-parsed="1Chr_6_44_0_0" data-passage="iChr 6.44" id="iChr.6.44"/><sup>44</sup>And on the left hand their brethren the sons of Merari: Ethan the son of Kishi, the son of Abdi, the son of Malluch,

<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.6.45" data-parsed="1Chr_6_45_0_0" data-passage="iChr 6.45" id="iChr.6.45"/><sup>45</sup>the son of Hashabiah, the son of Amaziah, the son of Hilkiah, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.6.46" data-parsed="1Chr_6_46_0_0" data-passage="iChr 6.46" id="iChr.6.46"/><sup>46</sup>the son of Amzi, the son of Bani, the son of Shemer, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.6.47" data-parsed="1Chr_6_47_0_0" data-passage="iChr 6.47" id="iChr.6.47"/><sup>47</sup>the son of Mahli, the son of Mushi, the son of Merari, the son of Levi. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.6.48" data-parsed="1Chr_6_48_0_0" data-passage="iChr 6.48" id="iChr.6.48"/><sup>48</sup>And their brethren the Levites were appointed for all the service of the tabernacle of the house of God.</p>
<p id="iChr.6-p4">
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.6.49" data-parsed="1Chr_6_49_0_0" data-passage="iChr 6.49" id="iChr.6.49"/><sup>49</sup>But Aaron and his sons offered upon the altar of burnt-offering, and upon the altar of incense, for all the work of the most holy place, and to make atonement for Israel, according to all that Moses the servant of God had commanded. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.6.50" data-parsed="1Chr_6_50_0_0" data-passage="iChr 6.50" id="iChr.6.50"/><sup>50</sup>And these are the sons of Aaron: Eleazar his son, Phinehas his son, Abishua his son, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.6.51" data-parsed="1Chr_6_51_0_0" data-passage="iChr 6.51" id="iChr.6.51"/><sup>51</sup>Bukki his son, Uzzi his son, Zerahiah his son, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.6.52" data-parsed="1Chr_6_52_0_0" data-passage="iChr 6.52" id="iChr.6.52"/><sup>52</sup>Meraioth his son, Amariah his son, Ahitub his son, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.6.53" data-parsed="1Chr_6_53_0_0" data-passage="iChr 6.53" id="iChr.6.53"/><sup>53</sup>Zadok his son, Ahimaaz his son.</p>
<p id="iChr.6-p5">
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.6.54" data-parsed="1Chr_6_54_0_0" data-passage="iChr 6.54" id="iChr.6.54"/><sup>54</sup>Now these are their dwelling-places according to their encampments in their borders: to the sons of Aaron, of the families of the Kohathites (for theirs was the <i>first</i> lot), 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.6.55" data-parsed="1Chr_6_55_0_0" data-passage="iChr 6.55" id="iChr.6.55"/><sup>55</sup>to them they gave Hebron in the land of Judah, and the suburbs thereof round about it; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.6.56" data-parsed="1Chr_6_56_0_0" data-passage="iChr 6.56" id="iChr.6.56"/><sup>56</sup>but the fields of the city, and the villages thereof, they gave to Caleb the son of Jephunneh.

<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.6.57" data-parsed="1Chr_6_57_0_0" data-passage="iChr 6.57" id="iChr.6.57"/><sup>57</sup>And to the sons of Aaron they gave the cities of refuge, Hebron; Libnah also with its suburbs, and Jattir, and Eshtemoa with its suburbs, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.6.58" data-parsed="1Chr_6_58_0_0" data-passage="iChr 6.58" id="iChr.6.58"/><sup>58</sup>and Hilen with its suburbs, Debir with its suburbs, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.6.59" data-parsed="1Chr_6_59_0_0" data-passage="iChr 6.59" id="iChr.6.59"/><sup>59</sup>and Ashan with its suburbs, and Beth-shemesh with its suburbs; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.6.60" data-parsed="1Chr_6_60_0_0" data-passage="iChr 6.60" id="iChr.6.60"/><sup>60</sup>and out of the tribe of Benjamin, Geba with its suburbs, and Allemeth with its suburbs, and Anathoth with its suburbs. All their cities throughout their families were thirteen cities.</p>
<p id="iChr.6-p6">
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.6.61" data-parsed="1Chr_6_61_0_0" data-passage="iChr 6.61" id="iChr.6.61"/><sup>61</sup>And unto the rest of the sons of Kohath <i>were given</i> by lot, out of the family of the tribe, out of the half-tribe, the half of Manasseh, ten cities. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.6.62" data-parsed="1Chr_6_62_0_0" data-passage="iChr 6.62" id="iChr.6.62"/><sup>62</sup>And to the sons of Gershom, according to their families, out of the tribe of Issachar, and out of the tribe of Asher, and out of the tribe of Naphtali, and out of the tribe of Manasseh in Bashan, thirteen cities.

<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.6.63" data-parsed="1Chr_6_63_0_0" data-passage="iChr 6.63" id="iChr.6.63"/><sup>63</sup>Unto the sons of Merari <i>were given</i> by lot, according to their families, out of the tribe of Reuben, and out of the tribe of Gad, and out of the tribe of Zebulun, twelve cities. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.6.64" data-parsed="1Chr_6_64_0_0" data-passage="iChr 6.64" id="iChr.6.64"/><sup>64</sup>And the children of Israel gave to the Levites the cities with their suburbs. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.6.65" data-parsed="1Chr_6_65_0_0" data-passage="iChr 6.65" id="iChr.6.65"/><sup>65</sup>And they gave by lot out of the tribe of the children of Judah, and out of the tribe of the children of Simeon, and out of the tribe of the children of Benjamin, these cities which are mentioned by name.</p>
<p id="iChr.6-p7">
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.6.66" data-parsed="1Chr_6_66_0_0" data-passage="iChr 6.66" id="iChr.6.66"/><sup>66</sup>And some of the families of the sons of Kohath had cities of their borders out of the tribe of Ephraim. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.6.67" data-parsed="1Chr_6_67_0_0" data-passage="iChr 6.67" id="iChr.6.67"/><sup>67</sup>And they gave unto them the cities of refuge, Shechem in the hill-country of Ephraim with its suburbs; Gezer also with its suburbs, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.6.68" data-parsed="1Chr_6_68_0_0" data-passage="iChr 6.68" id="iChr.6.68"/><sup>68</sup>and Jokmeam with its suburbs, and Beth-horon with its suburbs, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.6.69" data-parsed="1Chr_6_69_0_0" data-passage="iChr 6.69" id="iChr.6.69"/><sup>69</sup>and Aijalon with its suburbs, and Gath-rimmon with its suburbs; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.6.70" data-parsed="1Chr_6_70_0_0" data-passage="iChr 6.70" id="iChr.6.70"/><sup>70</sup>and out of the half-tribe of Manasseh, Aner with its suburbs, and Bileam with its suburbs, for the rest of the family of the sons of Kohath.</p>
<p id="iChr.6-p8">
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.6.71" data-parsed="1Chr_6_71_0_0" data-passage="iChr 6.71" id="iChr.6.71"/><sup>71</sup>Unto the sons of Gershom <i>were given</i>, out of the family of the half-tribe of Manasseh, Golan in Bashan with its suburbs, and Ashtaroth with its suburbs; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.6.72" data-parsed="1Chr_6_72_0_0" data-passage="iChr 6.72" id="iChr.6.72"/><sup>72</sup>and out of the tribe of Issachar, Kedesh with its suburbs,
Daberath with its suburbs, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.6.73" data-parsed="1Chr_6_73_0_0" data-passage="iChr 6.73" id="iChr.6.73"/><sup>73</sup>and Ramoth with its suburbs, and Anem with its suburbs; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.6.74" data-parsed="1Chr_6_74_0_0" data-passage="iChr 6.74" id="iChr.6.74"/><sup>74</sup>and out of the tribe of Asher, Mashal with its suburbs,
and Abdon with its suburbs, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.6.75" data-parsed="1Chr_6_75_0_0" data-passage="iChr 6.75" id="iChr.6.75"/><sup>75</sup>and Hukok with its suburbs, and Rehob with its suburbs; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.6.76" data-parsed="1Chr_6_76_0_0" data-passage="iChr 6.76" id="iChr.6.76"/><sup>76</sup>and out of the tribe of Naphtali, Kedesh in Galilee with its suburbs, and Hammon with its suburbs, and Kiriathaim with its suburbs.</p>
<p id="iChr.6-p9">
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.6.77" data-parsed="1Chr_6_77_0_0" data-passage="iChr 6.77" id="iChr.6.77"/><sup>77</sup>Unto the rest of <i>the Levites</i>, the sons of Merari, <i>were given</i>, out of the tribe of Zebulun, Rimmono with its suburbs, Tabor with its suburbs; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.6.78" data-parsed="1Chr_6_78_0_0" data-passage="iChr 6.78" id="iChr.6.78"/><sup>78</sup>and beyond the Jordan at Jericho, on the east side of the Jordan, <i>were given them</i>, out of the tribe of Reuben, Bezer in the wilderness with its suburbs, and Jahzah with its suburbs, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.6.79" data-parsed="1Chr_6_79_0_0" data-passage="iChr 6.79" id="iChr.6.79"/><sup>79</sup>and Kedemoth with its suburbs, and Mephaath with its suburbs; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.6.80" data-parsed="1Chr_6_80_0_0" data-passage="iChr 6.80" id="iChr.6.80"/><sup>80</sup>and out of the tribe of Gad, Ramoth in Gilead with its suburbs, and Mahanaim with its suburbs,

<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.6.81" data-parsed="1Chr_6_81_0_0" data-passage="iChr 6.81" id="iChr.6.81"/><sup>81</sup>and Heshbon with its suburbs, and Jazer with its suburbs.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>