<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>1 Chronicles 17</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">1 Chronicles 17</span></div><div data-next="iChr.18" data-prev="iChr.16" data-progress="38.43%" data-shorttitle="" id="iChr.17" title="1 Chronicles 17">
<h2 id="iChr.17-p0.1">17</h2>
<p id="iChr.17-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.17.1" data-parsed="1Chr_17_1_0_0" data-passage="iChr 17.1" id="iChr.17.1"/><sup>1</sup>And it came to pass, when David dwelt in his house, that David said to Nathan the prophet, Lo, I dwell in a house of cedar, but the ark of the covenant of Jehovah <i>dwelleth</i> under curtains. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.17.2" data-parsed="1Chr_17_2_0_0" data-passage="iChr 17.2" id="iChr.17.2"/><sup>2</sup>And Nathan said unto David, Do all that is in thy heart; for God is with thee. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.17.3" data-parsed="1Chr_17_3_0_0" data-passage="iChr 17.3" id="iChr.17.3"/><sup>3</sup>And it came to pass the same night, that the word of God came to Nathan, saying,

<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.17.4" data-parsed="1Chr_17_4_0_0" data-passage="iChr 17.4" id="iChr.17.4"/><sup>4</sup>Go and tell David my servant, Thus saith Jehovah, Thou shalt not build me a house to dwell in: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.17.5" data-parsed="1Chr_17_5_0_0" data-passage="iChr 17.5" id="iChr.17.5"/><sup>5</sup>for I have not dwelt in a house since the day that I brought up Israel, unto this day, but have gone from tent to tent, and from <i>one</i> tabernacle <i>to another</i>. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.17.6" data-parsed="1Chr_17_6_0_0" data-passage="iChr 17.6" id="iChr.17.6"/><sup>6</sup>In all places wherein I have walked with all Israel, spake I a word with any of the judges of Israel,
whom I commanded to be shepherd of my people, saying, Why have ye not built me a house of cedar? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.17.7" data-parsed="1Chr_17_7_0_0" data-passage="iChr 17.7" id="iChr.17.7"/><sup>7</sup>Now therefore thus shalt thou say unto my servant David, Thus saith Jehovah of hosts, I took thee from the sheepcote, from following the sheep, that thou shouldest be prince over my people Israel:

<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.17.8" data-parsed="1Chr_17_8_0_0" data-passage="iChr 17.8" id="iChr.17.8"/><sup>8</sup>and I have been with thee whithersoever thou hast gone, and have cut off all thine enemies from before thee; and I will make thee a name, like unto the name of the great ones that are in the earth. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.17.9" data-parsed="1Chr_17_9_0_0" data-passage="iChr 17.9" id="iChr.17.9"/><sup>9</sup>And I will appoint a place for my people Israel, and will plant them, that they may dwell in their own place, and be moved no more; neither shall the children of wickedness waste them any more, as at the first, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.17.10" data-parsed="1Chr_17_10_0_0" data-passage="iChr 17.10" id="iChr.17.10"/><sup>10</sup>and <i>as</i> from the day that I commanded judges to be over my people Israel; and I will subdue all thine enemies. Moreover I tell thee that Jehovah will build thee a house. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.17.11" data-parsed="1Chr_17_11_0_0" data-passage="iChr 17.11" id="iChr.17.11"/><sup>11</sup>And it shall come to pass, when thy days are fulfilled that thou must go to be with thy fathers, that I will set up thy seed after thee, who shall be of thy sons; and I will establish his kingdom. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.17.12" data-parsed="1Chr_17_12_0_0" data-passage="iChr 17.12" id="iChr.17.12"/><sup>12</sup>He shall build me a house, and I will establish his throne for ever. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.17.13" data-parsed="1Chr_17_13_0_0" data-passage="iChr 17.13" id="iChr.17.13"/><sup>13</sup>I will be his father, and he shall be my son: and I will not take my lovingkindness away from him, as I took it from him that was before thee; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.17.14" data-parsed="1Chr_17_14_0_0" data-passage="iChr 17.14" id="iChr.17.14"/><sup>14</sup>but I will settle him in my house and in my kingdom for ever; and his throne shall be established for ever. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.17.15" data-parsed="1Chr_17_15_0_0" data-passage="iChr 17.15" id="iChr.17.15"/><sup>15</sup>According to all these words, and according to all this vision,
so did Nathan speak unto David.</p>
<p id="iChr.17-p2">
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.17.16" data-parsed="1Chr_17_16_0_0" data-passage="iChr 17.16" id="iChr.17.16"/><sup>16</sup>Then David the king went in, and sat before Jehovah; and he said, Who am I, O Jehovah God, and what is my house, that thou hast brought me thus far? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.17.17" data-parsed="1Chr_17_17_0_0" data-passage="iChr 17.17" id="iChr.17.17"/><sup>17</sup>And this was a small thing in thine eyes, O God; but thou hast spoken of thy servant's house for a great while to come, and hast regarded me according to the estate of a man of high degree, O Jehovah God. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.17.18" data-parsed="1Chr_17_18_0_0" data-passage="iChr 17.18" id="iChr.17.18"/><sup>18</sup>What can David <i>say</i> yet more unto thee concerning the honor which is done to thy servant? for thou knowest thy servant. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.17.19" data-parsed="1Chr_17_19_0_0" data-passage="iChr 17.19" id="iChr.17.19"/><sup>19</sup>O Jehovah, for thy servant's sake, and according to thine own heart, hast thou wrought all this greatness, to make known all <i>these</i> great things. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.17.20" data-parsed="1Chr_17_20_0_0" data-passage="iChr 17.20" id="iChr.17.20"/><sup>20</sup>O Jehovah,
there is none like thee, neither is there any God besides thee, according to all that we have heard with our ears. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.17.21" data-parsed="1Chr_17_21_0_0" data-passage="iChr 17.21" id="iChr.17.21"/><sup>21</sup>And what one nation in the earth is like thy people Israel, whom God went to redeem unto himself for a people,
to make thee a name by great and terrible things, in driving out nations from before thy people, whom thou redeemest out of Egypt? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.17.22" data-parsed="1Chr_17_22_0_0" data-passage="iChr 17.22" id="iChr.17.22"/><sup>22</sup>For thy people Israel didst thou make thine own people for ever; and thou, Jehovah, becamest their God. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.17.23" data-parsed="1Chr_17_23_0_0" data-passage="iChr 17.23" id="iChr.17.23"/><sup>23</sup>And now, O Jehovah, let the word that thou hast spoken concerning thy servant, and concerning his house, be established for ever,
and do as thou hast spoken. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.17.24" data-parsed="1Chr_17_24_0_0" data-passage="iChr 17.24" id="iChr.17.24"/><sup>24</sup>And let thy name be established and magnified for ever, saying, Jehovah of hosts is the God of Israel, even a God to Israel: and the house of David thy servant is established before thee.

<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.17.25" data-parsed="1Chr_17_25_0_0" data-passage="iChr 17.25" id="iChr.17.25"/><sup>25</sup>For thou, O my God, hast revealed to thy servant that thou wilt build him a house: therefore hath thy servant found <i>in his heart</i> to pray before thee. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.17.26" data-parsed="1Chr_17_26_0_0" data-passage="iChr 17.26" id="iChr.17.26"/><sup>26</sup>And now, O Jehovah, thou art God, and hast promised this good thing unto thy servant: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.17.27" data-parsed="1Chr_17_27_0_0" data-passage="iChr 17.27" id="iChr.17.27"/><sup>27</sup>and now it hath pleased thee to bless the house of thy servant, that it may continue for ever before thee: for thou, O Jehovah, hast blessed, and it is blessed for ever.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>