<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>1 Chronicles 21</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">1 Chronicles 21</span></div><div data-next="iChr.22" data-prev="iChr.20" data-progress="38.70%" data-shorttitle="" id="iChr.21" title="1 Chronicles 21">
<h2 id="iChr.21-p0.1">21</h2>
<p id="iChr.21-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.21.1" data-parsed="1Chr_21_1_0_0" data-passage="iChr 21.1" id="iChr.21.1"/><sup>1</sup>And Satan stood up against Israel, and moved David to number Israel. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.21.2" data-parsed="1Chr_21_2_0_0" data-passage="iChr 21.2" id="iChr.21.2"/><sup>2</sup>And David said to Joab and to the princes of the people, Go,
number Israel from Beer-sheba even to Dan; and bring me word, that I may know the sum of them. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.21.3" data-parsed="1Chr_21_3_0_0" data-passage="iChr 21.3" id="iChr.21.3"/><sup>3</sup>And Joab said, Jehovah make his people a hundred times as many as they are: but, my lord the king, are they not all my lord's servants? why doth my lord require this thing? why will he be a cause of guilt unto Israel? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.21.4" data-parsed="1Chr_21_4_0_0" data-passage="iChr 21.4" id="iChr.21.4"/><sup>4</sup>Nevertheless the king's word prevailed against Joab.
Wherefore Joab departed, and went throughout all Israel, and came to Jerusalem. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.21.5" data-parsed="1Chr_21_5_0_0" data-passage="iChr 21.5" id="iChr.21.5"/><sup>5</sup>And Joab gave up the sum of the numbering of the people unto David. And all they of Israel were a thousand thousand and a hundred thousand men that drew sword: and Judah was four hundred threescore and ten thousand men that drew sword. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.21.6" data-parsed="1Chr_21_6_0_0" data-passage="iChr 21.6" id="iChr.21.6"/><sup>6</sup>But Levi and Benjamin counted he not among them;
for the king's word was abominable to Joab. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.21.7" data-parsed="1Chr_21_7_0_0" data-passage="iChr 21.7" id="iChr.21.7"/><sup>7</sup>And God was displeased with this thing; therefore he smote Israel. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.21.8" data-parsed="1Chr_21_8_0_0" data-passage="iChr 21.8" id="iChr.21.8"/><sup>8</sup>And David said unto God, I have sinned greatly, in that I have done this thing: but now, put away, I beseech thee, the iniquity of thy servant; for I have done very foolishly.</p>
<p id="iChr.21-p2">
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.21.9" data-parsed="1Chr_21_9_0_0" data-passage="iChr 21.9" id="iChr.21.9"/><sup>9</sup>And Jehovah spake unto Gad, David's seer, saying, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.21.10" data-parsed="1Chr_21_10_0_0" data-passage="iChr 21.10" id="iChr.21.10"/><sup>10</sup>Go and speak unto David, saying, Thus saith Jehovah, I offer thee three things: choose thee one of them, that I may do it unto thee. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.21.11" data-parsed="1Chr_21_11_0_0" data-passage="iChr 21.11" id="iChr.21.11"/><sup>11</sup>So Gad came to David, and said unto him, Thus saith Jehovah, Take which thou wilt: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.21.12" data-parsed="1Chr_21_12_0_0" data-passage="iChr 21.12" id="iChr.21.12"/><sup>12</sup>either three years of famine; or three months to be consumed before thy foes, while the sword of thine enemies overtaketh thee; or else three days the sword of Jehovah, even pestilence in the land, and the angel of Jehovah destroying throughout all the borders of Israel. Now therefore consider what answer I shall return to him that sent me. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.21.13" data-parsed="1Chr_21_13_0_0" data-passage="iChr 21.13" id="iChr.21.13"/><sup>13</sup>And David said unto Gad, I am in a great strait: let me fall, I pray, into the hand of Jehovah; for very great are his mercies: and let me not fall into the hand of man. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.21.14" data-parsed="1Chr_21_14_0_0" data-passage="iChr 21.14" id="iChr.21.14"/><sup>14</sup>So Jehovah sent a pestilence upon Israel; and there fell of Israel seventy thousand men.

<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.21.15" data-parsed="1Chr_21_15_0_0" data-passage="iChr 21.15" id="iChr.21.15"/><sup>15</sup>And God sent an angel unto Jerusalem to destroy it: and as he was about to destroy, Jehovah beheld, and he repented him of the evil, and said to the destroying angel, It is enough; now stay thy hand. And the angel of Jehovah was standing by the threshing-floor of Ornan the Jebusite. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.21.16" data-parsed="1Chr_21_16_0_0" data-passage="iChr 21.16" id="iChr.21.16"/><sup>16</sup>And David lifted up his eyes, and saw the angel of Jehovah standing between earth and heaven, having a drawn sword in his hand stretched out over Jerusalem. Then David and the elders, clothed in sackcloth, fell upon their faces. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.21.17" data-parsed="1Chr_21_17_0_0" data-passage="iChr 21.17" id="iChr.21.17"/><sup>17</sup>And David said unto God, Is it not I that commanded the people to be numbered?
even I it is that have sinned and done very wickedly; but these sheep, what have they done? let thy hand, I pray thee, O Jehovah my God, be against me,
and against my father's house; but not against thy people, that they should be plagued.</p>
<p id="iChr.21-p3">
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.21.18" data-parsed="1Chr_21_18_0_0" data-passage="iChr 21.18" id="iChr.21.18"/><sup>18</sup>Then the angel of Jehovah commanded Gad to say to David, that David should go up, and rear an altar unto Jehovah in the threshing-floor of Ornan the Jebusite. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.21.19" data-parsed="1Chr_21_19_0_0" data-passage="iChr 21.19" id="iChr.21.19"/><sup>19</sup>And David went up at the saying of Gad, which he spake in the name of Jehovah. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.21.20" data-parsed="1Chr_21_20_0_0" data-passage="iChr 21.20" id="iChr.21.20"/><sup>20</sup>And Ornan turned back, and saw the angel; and his four sons that were with him hid themselves. Now Ornan was threshing wheat.

<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.21.21" data-parsed="1Chr_21_21_0_0" data-passage="iChr 21.21" id="iChr.21.21"/><sup>21</sup>And as David came to Ornan, Ornan looked and saw David, and went out of the threshing-floor, and bowed himself to David with his face to the ground.

<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.21.22" data-parsed="1Chr_21_22_0_0" data-passage="iChr 21.22" id="iChr.21.22"/><sup>22</sup>Then David said to Ornan, Give me the place of this threshing-floor,
that I may build thereon an altar unto Jehovah: for the full price shalt thou give it me, that the plague may be stayed from the people. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.21.23" data-parsed="1Chr_21_23_0_0" data-passage="iChr 21.23" id="iChr.21.23"/><sup>23</sup>And Ornan said unto David, Take it to thee, and let my lord the king do that which is good in his eyes: lo, I give <i>thee</i> the oxen for burnt-offerings, and the threshing instruments for wood, and the wheat for the meal-offering; I give it all. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.21.24" data-parsed="1Chr_21_24_0_0" data-passage="iChr 21.24" id="iChr.21.24"/><sup>24</sup>And king David said to Ornan, Nay; but I will verily buy it for the full price: for I will not take that which is thine for Jehovah,
nor offer a burnt-offering without cost. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.21.25" data-parsed="1Chr_21_25_0_0" data-passage="iChr 21.25" id="iChr.21.25"/><sup>25</sup>So David gave to Ornan for the place six hundred shekels of gold by weight. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.21.26" data-parsed="1Chr_21_26_0_0" data-passage="iChr 21.26" id="iChr.21.26"/><sup>26</sup>And David built there an altar unto Jehovah, and offered burnt-offerings and peace-offerings, and called upon Jehovah; and he answered him from heaven by fire upon the altar of burnt-offering. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.21.27" data-parsed="1Chr_21_27_0_0" data-passage="iChr 21.27" id="iChr.21.27"/><sup>27</sup>And Jehovah commanded the angel; and he put up his sword again into the sheath thereof.</p>
<p id="iChr.21-p4">
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.21.28" data-parsed="1Chr_21_28_0_0" data-passage="iChr 21.28" id="iChr.21.28"/><sup>28</sup>At that time, when David saw that Jehovah had answered him in the threshing-floor of Ornan the Jebusite, then he sacrificed there. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.21.29" data-parsed="1Chr_21_29_0_0" data-passage="iChr 21.29" id="iChr.21.29"/><sup>29</sup>For the tabernacle of Jehovah, which Moses made in the wilderness, and the altar of burnt-offering, were at that time in the high place at Gibeon. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.21.30" data-parsed="1Chr_21_30_0_0" data-passage="iChr 21.30" id="iChr.21.30"/><sup>30</sup>But David could not go before it to inquire of God; for he was afraid because of the sword of the angel of Jehovah.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>