<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>1 Chronicles 24</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">1 Chronicles 24</span></div><div data-next="iChr.25" data-prev="iChr.23" data-progress="38.97%" data-shorttitle="" id="iChr.24" title="1 Chronicles 24">
<h2 id="iChr.24-p0.1">24</h2>
<p id="iChr.24-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.24.1" data-parsed="1Chr_24_1_0_0" data-passage="iChr 24.1" id="iChr.24.1"/><sup>1</sup>And the courses of the sons of Aaron <i>were these</i>. The sons of Aaron: Nadab and Abihu, Eleazar and Ithamar. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.24.2" data-parsed="1Chr_24_2_0_0" data-passage="iChr 24.2" id="iChr.24.2"/><sup>2</sup>But Nadab and Abihu died before their father, and had no children: therefore Eleazar and Ithamar executed the priest's office. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.24.3" data-parsed="1Chr_24_3_0_0" data-passage="iChr 24.3" id="iChr.24.3"/><sup>3</sup>And David with Zadok of the sons of Eleazar, and Ahimelech of the sons of Ithamar, divided them according to their ordering in their service. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.24.4" data-parsed="1Chr_24_4_0_0" data-passage="iChr 24.4" id="iChr.24.4"/><sup>4</sup>And there were more chief men found of the sons of Eleazar than of the sons of Ithamar; and <i>thus</i> were they divided: of the sons of Eleazar there were sixteen, heads of fathers' houses;
and of the sons of Ithamar, according to their fathers' houses, eight.

<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.24.5" data-parsed="1Chr_24_5_0_0" data-passage="iChr 24.5" id="iChr.24.5"/><sup>5</sup>Thus were they divided by lot, one sort with another; for there were princes of the sanctuary, and princes of God, both of the sons of Eleazar,
and of the sons of Ithamar. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.24.6" data-parsed="1Chr_24_6_0_0" data-passage="iChr 24.6" id="iChr.24.6"/><sup>6</sup>And Shemaiah the son of Nethanel the scribe,
who was of the Levites, wrote them in the presence of the king, and the princes, and Zadok the priest, and Ahimelech the son of Abiathar, and the heads of the fathers' <i>houses</i> of the priests and of the Levites; one fathers' house being taken for Eleazar, and one taken for Ithamar.</p>
<p id="iChr.24-p2">
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.24.7" data-parsed="1Chr_24_7_0_0" data-passage="iChr 24.7" id="iChr.24.7"/><sup>7</sup>Now the first lot came forth to Jehoiarib, the second to Jedaiah,

<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.24.8" data-parsed="1Chr_24_8_0_0" data-passage="iChr 24.8" id="iChr.24.8"/><sup>8</sup>the third to Harim, the fourth to Seorim, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.24.9" data-parsed="1Chr_24_9_0_0" data-passage="iChr 24.9" id="iChr.24.9"/><sup>9</sup>the fifth to Malchijah,
the sixth to Mijamin, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.24.10" data-parsed="1Chr_24_10_0_0" data-passage="iChr 24.10" id="iChr.24.10"/><sup>10</sup>the seventh to Hakkoz, the eighth to Abijah,

<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.24.11" data-parsed="1Chr_24_11_0_0" data-passage="iChr 24.11" id="iChr.24.11"/><sup>11</sup>the ninth to Jeshua, the tenth to Shecaniah, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.24.12" data-parsed="1Chr_24_12_0_0" data-passage="iChr 24.12" id="iChr.24.12"/><sup>12</sup>the eleventh to Eliashib, the twelfth to Jakim, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.24.13" data-parsed="1Chr_24_13_0_0" data-passage="iChr 24.13" id="iChr.24.13"/><sup>13</sup>the thirteenth to Huppah, the fourteenth to Jeshebeab, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.24.14" data-parsed="1Chr_24_14_0_0" data-passage="iChr 24.14" id="iChr.24.14"/><sup>14</sup>the fifteenth to Bilgah, the sixteenth to Immer, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.24.15" data-parsed="1Chr_24_15_0_0" data-passage="iChr 24.15" id="iChr.24.15"/><sup>15</sup>the seventeenth to Hezir, the eighteenth to Happizzez, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.24.16" data-parsed="1Chr_24_16_0_0" data-passage="iChr 24.16" id="iChr.24.16"/><sup>16</sup>the nineteenth to Pethahiah, the twentieth to Jehezkel, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.24.17" data-parsed="1Chr_24_17_0_0" data-passage="iChr 24.17" id="iChr.24.17"/><sup>17</sup>the one and twentieth to Jachin, the two and twentieth to Gamul, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.24.18" data-parsed="1Chr_24_18_0_0" data-passage="iChr 24.18" id="iChr.24.18"/><sup>18</sup>the three and twentieth to Delaiah, the four and twentieth to Maaziah. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.24.19" data-parsed="1Chr_24_19_0_0" data-passage="iChr 24.19" id="iChr.24.19"/><sup>19</sup>This was the ordering of them in their service, to come into the house of Jehovah according to the ordinance <i>given</i> unto them by Aaron their father, as Jehovah, the God of Israel, had commanded him.</p>
<p id="iChr.24-p3">
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.24.20" data-parsed="1Chr_24_20_0_0" data-passage="iChr 24.20" id="iChr.24.20"/><sup>20</sup>And of the rest of the sons of Levi: of the sons of Amram, Shubael; of the sons of Shubael, Jehdeiah. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.24.21" data-parsed="1Chr_24_21_0_0" data-passage="iChr 24.21" id="iChr.24.21"/><sup>21</sup>Of Rehabiah: of the sons of Rehabiah,
Isshiah the chief. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.24.22" data-parsed="1Chr_24_22_0_0" data-passage="iChr 24.22" id="iChr.24.22"/><sup>22</sup>Of the Izharites, Shelomoth; of the sons of Shelomoth, Jahath. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.24.23" data-parsed="1Chr_24_23_0_0" data-passage="iChr 24.23" id="iChr.24.23"/><sup>23</sup>And the sons <i>of Hebron</i>: Jeriah <i>the chief</i>, Amariah the second, Jahaziel the third, Jekameam the fourth.

<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.24.24" data-parsed="1Chr_24_24_0_0" data-passage="iChr 24.24" id="iChr.24.24"/><sup>24</sup>The sons of Uzziel, Micah; of the sons of Micah, Shamir. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.24.25" data-parsed="1Chr_24_25_0_0" data-passage="iChr 24.25" id="iChr.24.25"/><sup>25</sup>The brother of Micah, Isshiah; of the sons of Isshiah, Zechariah. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.24.26" data-parsed="1Chr_24_26_0_0" data-passage="iChr 24.26" id="iChr.24.26"/><sup>26</sup>The sons of Merari: Mahli and Mushi; the sons of Jaaziah: Beno. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.24.27" data-parsed="1Chr_24_27_0_0" data-passage="iChr 24.27" id="iChr.24.27"/><sup>27</sup>The sons of Merari: of Jaaziah, Beno, and Shoham, and Zaccur, and Ibri. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.24.28" data-parsed="1Chr_24_28_0_0" data-passage="iChr 24.28" id="iChr.24.28"/><sup>28</sup>Of Mahli:
Eleazar, who had no sons. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.24.29" data-parsed="1Chr_24_29_0_0" data-passage="iChr 24.29" id="iChr.24.29"/><sup>29</sup>Of Kish; the sons of Kish: Jerahmeel.

<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.24.30" data-parsed="1Chr_24_30_0_0" data-passage="iChr 24.30" id="iChr.24.30"/><sup>30</sup>And the sons of Mushi: Mahli, and Eder, and Jerimoth. These were the sons of the Levites after their fathers' houses. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.24.31" data-parsed="1Chr_24_31_0_0" data-passage="iChr 24.31" id="iChr.24.31"/><sup>31</sup>These likewise cast lots even as their brethren the sons of Aaron in the presence of David the king, and Zadok, and Ahimelech, and the heads of the fathers' <i>houses</i>
of the priests and of the Levites; the fathers' <i>houses</i> of the chief even as those of his younger brother.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>