<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>1 Chronicles 10</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">1 Chronicles 10</span></div><div data-next="iChr.11" data-prev="iChr.9" data-progress="37.83%" data-shorttitle="" id="iChr.10" title="1 Chronicles 10">
<h2 id="iChr.10-p0.1">10</h2>
<p id="iChr.10-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.10.1" data-parsed="1Chr_10_1_0_0" data-passage="iChr 10.1" id="iChr.10.1"/><sup>1</sup>Now the Philistines fought against Israel: and the men of Israel fled from before the Philistines, and fell down slain in mount Gilboa.

<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.10.2" data-parsed="1Chr_10_2_0_0" data-passage="iChr 10.2" id="iChr.10.2"/><sup>2</sup>And the Philistines followed hard after Saul and after his sons; and the Philistines slew Jonathan, and Abinadab, and Malchi-shua, the sons of Saul.

<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.10.3" data-parsed="1Chr_10_3_0_0" data-passage="iChr 10.3" id="iChr.10.3"/><sup>3</sup>And the battle went sore against Saul, and the archers overtook him; and he was distressed by reason of the archers. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.10.4" data-parsed="1Chr_10_4_0_0" data-passage="iChr 10.4" id="iChr.10.4"/><sup>4</sup>Then said Saul unto his armor-bearer, Draw thy sword, and thrust me through therewith, lest these uncircumcised come and abuse me. But his armor-bearer would not; for he was sore afraid. Therefore Saul took his sword, and fell upon it. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.10.5" data-parsed="1Chr_10_5_0_0" data-passage="iChr 10.5" id="iChr.10.5"/><sup>5</sup>And when his armor-bearer saw that Saul was dead, he likewise fell upon his sword, and died. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.10.6" data-parsed="1Chr_10_6_0_0" data-passage="iChr 10.6" id="iChr.10.6"/><sup>6</sup>So Saul died, and his three sons; and all his house died together.</p>
<p id="iChr.10-p2">
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.10.7" data-parsed="1Chr_10_7_0_0" data-passage="iChr 10.7" id="iChr.10.7"/><sup>7</sup>And when all the men of Israel that were in the valley saw that they fled, and that Saul and his sons were dead, they forsook their cities, and fled; and the Philistines came and dwelt in them. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.10.8" data-parsed="1Chr_10_8_0_0" data-passage="iChr 10.8" id="iChr.10.8"/><sup>8</sup>And it came to pass on the morrow, when the Philistines came to strip the slain, that they found Saul and his sons fallen in mount Gilboa. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.10.9" data-parsed="1Chr_10_9_0_0" data-passage="iChr 10.9" id="iChr.10.9"/><sup>9</sup>And they stripped him, and took his head, and his armor, and sent into the land of the Philistines round about, to carry the tidings unto their idols, and to the people. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.10.10" data-parsed="1Chr_10_10_0_0" data-passage="iChr 10.10" id="iChr.10.10"/><sup>10</sup>And they put his armor in the house of their gods, and fastened his head in the house of Dagon. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.10.11" data-parsed="1Chr_10_11_0_0" data-passage="iChr 10.11" id="iChr.10.11"/><sup>11</sup>And when all Jabesh-gilead heard all that the Philistines had done to Saul, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.10.12" data-parsed="1Chr_10_12_0_0" data-passage="iChr 10.12" id="iChr.10.12"/><sup>12</sup>all the valiant men arose, and took away the body of Saul, and the bodies of his sons, and brought them to Jabesh, and buried their bones under the oak in Jabesh, and fasted seven days.</p>
<p id="iChr.10-p3">
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.10.13" data-parsed="1Chr_10_13_0_0" data-passage="iChr 10.13" id="iChr.10.13"/><sup>13</sup>So Saul died for his trespass which he committed against Jehovah,
because of the word of Jehovah, which he kept not; and also for that he asked counsel of one that had a familiar spirit, to inquire <i>thereby</i>,

<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.10.14" data-parsed="1Chr_10_14_0_0" data-passage="iChr 10.14" id="iChr.10.14"/><sup>14</sup>and inquired not of Jehovah: therefore he slew him, and turned the kingdom unto David the son of Jesse.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>