<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>1 Chronicles 5</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">1 Chronicles 5</span></div><div data-next="iChr.6" data-prev="iChr.4" data-progress="37.27%" data-shorttitle="" id="iChr.5" title="1 Chronicles 5">
<h2 id="iChr.5-p0.1">5</h2>
<p id="iChr.5-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.5.1" data-parsed="1Chr_5_1_0_0" data-passage="iChr 5.1" id="iChr.5.1"/><sup>1</sup>And the sons of Reuben the first-born of Israel (for he was the first-born; but, forasmuch as he defiled his father's couch, his birthright was given unto the sons of Joseph the son of Israel; and the genealogy is not to be reckoned after the birthright. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.5.2" data-parsed="1Chr_5_2_0_0" data-passage="iChr 5.2" id="iChr.5.2"/><sup>2</sup>For Judah prevailed above his brethren, and of him came the prince; but the birthright was Joseph's:)

<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.5.3" data-parsed="1Chr_5_3_0_0" data-passage="iChr 5.3" id="iChr.5.3"/><sup>3</sup>the sons of Reuben the first-born of Israel: Hanoch, and Pallu, Hezron,
and Carmi. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.5.4" data-parsed="1Chr_5_4_0_0" data-passage="iChr 5.4" id="iChr.5.4"/><sup>4</sup>The sons of Joel: Shemaiah his son, Gog his son, Shimei his son, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.5.5" data-parsed="1Chr_5_5_0_0" data-passage="iChr 5.5" id="iChr.5.5"/><sup>5</sup>Micah his son, Reaiah his son, Baal his son, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.5.6" data-parsed="1Chr_5_6_0_0" data-passage="iChr 5.6" id="iChr.5.6"/><sup>6</sup>Beerah his son,
whom Tilgath-pilneser king of Assyria carried away captive: he was prince of the Reubenites. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.5.7" data-parsed="1Chr_5_7_0_0" data-passage="iChr 5.7" id="iChr.5.7"/><sup>7</sup>And his brethren by their families, when the genealogy of their generations was reckoned: the chief, Jeiel, and Zechariah, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.5.8" data-parsed="1Chr_5_8_0_0" data-passage="iChr 5.8" id="iChr.5.8"/><sup>8</sup>and Bela the son of Azaz, the son of Shema, the son of Joel, who dwelt in Aroer,
even unto Nebo and Baal-meon: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.5.9" data-parsed="1Chr_5_9_0_0" data-passage="iChr 5.9" id="iChr.5.9"/><sup>9</sup>and eastward he dwelt even unto the entrance of the wilderness from the river Euphrates, because their cattle were multiplied in the land of Gilead. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.5.10" data-parsed="1Chr_5_10_0_0" data-passage="iChr 5.10" id="iChr.5.10"/><sup>10</sup>And in the days of Saul, they made war with the Hagrites, who fell by their hand; and they dwelt in their tents throughout all the <i>land</i> east of Gilead.</p>
<p id="iChr.5-p2">
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.5.11" data-parsed="1Chr_5_11_0_0" data-passage="iChr 5.11" id="iChr.5.11"/><sup>11</sup>And the sons of Gad dwelt over against them, in the land of Bashan unto Salecah: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.5.12" data-parsed="1Chr_5_12_0_0" data-passage="iChr 5.12" id="iChr.5.12"/><sup>12</sup>Joel the chief, and Shapham the second, and Janai, and Shaphat in Bashan. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.5.13" data-parsed="1Chr_5_13_0_0" data-passage="iChr 5.13" id="iChr.5.13"/><sup>13</sup>And their brethren of their fathers' houses: Michael, and Meshullam, and Sheba, and Jorai, and Jacan, and Zia, and Eber, seven.

<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.5.14" data-parsed="1Chr_5_14_0_0" data-passage="iChr 5.14" id="iChr.5.14"/><sup>14</sup>These were the sons of Abihail, the son of Huri, the son of Jaroah, the son of Gilead, the son of Michael, the son of Jeshishai, the son of Jahdo,
the son of Buz; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.5.15" data-parsed="1Chr_5_15_0_0" data-passage="iChr 5.15" id="iChr.5.15"/><sup>15</sup>Ahi the son of Abdiel, the son of Guni, chief of their fathers' houses. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.5.16" data-parsed="1Chr_5_16_0_0" data-passage="iChr 5.16" id="iChr.5.16"/><sup>16</sup>And they dwelt in Gilead in Bashan, and in its towns,
and in all the suburbs of Sharon, as far as their borders. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.5.17" data-parsed="1Chr_5_17_0_0" data-passage="iChr 5.17" id="iChr.5.17"/><sup>17</sup>All these were reckoned by genealogies in the days of Jotham king of Judah, and in the days of Jeroboam king of Israel.</p>
<p id="iChr.5-p3">
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.5.18" data-parsed="1Chr_5_18_0_0" data-passage="iChr 5.18" id="iChr.5.18"/><sup>18</sup>The sons of Reuben, and the Gadites, and the half-tribe of Manasseh, of valiant men, men able to bear buckler and sword, and to shoot with bow, and skilful in war, were forty and four thousand seven hundred and threescore,
that were able to go forth to war. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.5.19" data-parsed="1Chr_5_19_0_0" data-passage="iChr 5.19" id="iChr.5.19"/><sup>19</sup>And they made war with the Hagrites,
with Jetur, and Naphish, and Nodab. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.5.20" data-parsed="1Chr_5_20_0_0" data-passage="iChr 5.20" id="iChr.5.20"/><sup>20</sup>And they were helped against them,
and the Hagrites were delivered into their hand, and all that were with them;
for they cried to God in the battle, and he was entreated of them, because they put their trust in him. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.5.21" data-parsed="1Chr_5_21_0_0" data-passage="iChr 5.21" id="iChr.5.21"/><sup>21</sup>And they took away their cattle; of their camels fifty thousand, and of sheep two hundred and fifty thousand, and of asses two thousand, and of men a hundred thousand. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.5.22" data-parsed="1Chr_5_22_0_0" data-passage="iChr 5.22" id="iChr.5.22"/><sup>22</sup>For there fell many slain, because the war was of God. And they dwelt in their stead until the captivity.</p>
<p id="iChr.5-p4">
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.5.23" data-parsed="1Chr_5_23_0_0" data-passage="iChr 5.23" id="iChr.5.23"/><sup>23</sup>And the children of the half-tribe of Manasseh dwelt in the land: they increased from Bashan unto Baal-hermon and Senir and mount Hermon. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.5.24" data-parsed="1Chr_5_24_0_0" data-passage="iChr 5.24" id="iChr.5.24"/><sup>24</sup>And these were the heads of their fathers' houses: even Epher, and Ishi, and Eliel, and Azriel, and Jeremiah, and Hodaviah, and Jahdiel, mighty men of valor, famous men, heads of their fathers' houses.</p>
<p id="iChr.5-p5">
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.5.25" data-parsed="1Chr_5_25_0_0" data-passage="iChr 5.25" id="iChr.5.25"/><sup>25</sup>And they trespassed against the God of their fathers, and played the harlot after the gods of the peoples of the land, whom God destroyed before them. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.5.26" data-parsed="1Chr_5_26_0_0" data-passage="iChr 5.26" id="iChr.5.26"/><sup>26</sup>And the God of Israel stirred up the spirit of Pul king of Assyria, and the spirit of Tilgath-pilneser king of Assyria, and he carried them away, even the Reubenites, and the Gadites, and the half-tribe of Manasseh, and brought them unto Halah, and Habor, and Hara, and to the river of Gozan, unto this day.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>