<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>1 Chronicles 2</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">1 Chronicles 2</span></div><div data-next="iChr.3" data-prev="iChr.1" data-progress="36.99%" data-shorttitle="" id="iChr.2" title="1 Chronicles 2">
<h2 id="iChr.2-p0.1">2</h2>
<p id="iChr.2-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.2.1" data-parsed="1Chr_2_1_0_0" data-passage="iChr 2.1" id="iChr.2.1"/><sup>1</sup>These are the sons of Israel: Reuben, Simeon, Levi, and Judah,
Issachar, and Zebulun, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.2.2" data-parsed="1Chr_2_2_0_0" data-passage="iChr 2.2" id="iChr.2.2"/><sup>2</sup>Dan, Joseph, and Benjamin, Naphtali, Gad, and Asher.</p>
<p id="iChr.2-p2">
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.2.3" data-parsed="1Chr_2_3_0_0" data-passage="iChr 2.3" id="iChr.2.3"/><sup>3</sup>The sons of Judah: Er, and Onan, and Shelah; which three were born unto him of Shua's daughter the Canaanitess. And Er, Judah's first-born, was wicked in the sight of Jehovah; and he slew him. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.2.4" data-parsed="1Chr_2_4_0_0" data-passage="iChr 2.4" id="iChr.2.4"/><sup>4</sup>And Tamar his daughter-in-law bare him Perez and Zerah. All the sons of Judah were five.</p>
<p id="iChr.2-p3">
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.2.5" data-parsed="1Chr_2_5_0_0" data-passage="iChr 2.5" id="iChr.2.5"/><sup>5</sup>The sons of Perez: Hezron, and Hamul. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.2.6" data-parsed="1Chr_2_6_0_0" data-passage="iChr 2.6" id="iChr.2.6"/><sup>6</sup>And the sons of Zerah: Zimri,
and Ethan, and Heman, and Calcol, and Dara; five of them in all. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.2.7" data-parsed="1Chr_2_7_0_0" data-passage="iChr 2.7" id="iChr.2.7"/><sup>7</sup>And the sons of Carmi: Achar, the troubler of Israel, who committed a trespass in the devoted thing. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.2.8" data-parsed="1Chr_2_8_0_0" data-passage="iChr 2.8" id="iChr.2.8"/><sup>8</sup>And the sons of Ethan: Azariah.</p>
<p id="iChr.2-p4">
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.2.9" data-parsed="1Chr_2_9_0_0" data-passage="iChr 2.9" id="iChr.2.9"/><sup>9</sup>The sons also of Hezron, that were born unto him: Jerahmeel, and Ram,
and Chelubai. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.2.10" data-parsed="1Chr_2_10_0_0" data-passage="iChr 2.10" id="iChr.2.10"/><sup>10</sup>And Ram begat Amminadab, and Amminadab begat Nahshon,
prince of the children of Judah; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.2.11" data-parsed="1Chr_2_11_0_0" data-passage="iChr 2.11" id="iChr.2.11"/><sup>11</sup>and Nahshon begat Salma, and Salma begat Boaz, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.2.12" data-parsed="1Chr_2_12_0_0" data-passage="iChr 2.12" id="iChr.2.12"/><sup>12</sup>and Boaz begat Obed, and Obed begat Jesse; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.2.13" data-parsed="1Chr_2_13_0_0" data-passage="iChr 2.13" id="iChr.2.13"/><sup>13</sup>and Jesse begat his first-born Eliab, and Abinadab the second, and Shimea the third,

<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.2.14" data-parsed="1Chr_2_14_0_0" data-passage="iChr 2.14" id="iChr.2.14"/><sup>14</sup>Nethanel the fourth, Raddai the fifth, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.2.15" data-parsed="1Chr_2_15_0_0" data-passage="iChr 2.15" id="iChr.2.15"/><sup>15</sup>Ozem the sixth, David the seventh; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.2.16" data-parsed="1Chr_2_16_0_0" data-passage="iChr 2.16" id="iChr.2.16"/><sup>16</sup>and their sisters were Zeruiah and Abigail. And the sons of Zeruiah: Abishai, and Joab, and Asahel, three. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.2.17" data-parsed="1Chr_2_17_0_0" data-passage="iChr 2.17" id="iChr.2.17"/><sup>17</sup>And Abigail bare Amasa;
and the father of Amasa was Jether the Ishmaelite.</p>
<p id="iChr.2-p5">
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.2.18" data-parsed="1Chr_2_18_0_0" data-passage="iChr 2.18" id="iChr.2.18"/><sup>18</sup>And Caleb the son of Hezron begat <i>children</i> of Azubah <i>his</i> wife, and of Jerioth; and these were her sons: Jesher, and Shobab, and Ardon. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.2.19" data-parsed="1Chr_2_19_0_0" data-passage="iChr 2.19" id="iChr.2.19"/><sup>19</sup>And Azubah died, and Caleb took unto him Ephrath,
who bare him Hur. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.2.20" data-parsed="1Chr_2_20_0_0" data-passage="iChr 2.20" id="iChr.2.20"/><sup>20</sup>And Hur begat Uri, and Uri begat Bezalel.</p>
<p id="iChr.2-p6">
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.2.21" data-parsed="1Chr_2_21_0_0" data-passage="iChr 2.21" id="iChr.2.21"/><sup>21</sup>And afterward Hezron went in to the daughter of Machir the father of Gilead, whom he took <i>to wife</i> when he was threescore years old; and she bare him Segub. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.2.22" data-parsed="1Chr_2_22_0_0" data-passage="iChr 2.22" id="iChr.2.22"/><sup>22</sup>And Segub begat Jair, who had three and twenty cities in the land of Gilead. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.2.23" data-parsed="1Chr_2_23_0_0" data-passage="iChr 2.23" id="iChr.2.23"/><sup>23</sup>And Geshur and Aram took the towns of Jair from them, with Kenath, and the villages thereof, even threescore cities. All these were the sons of Machir the father of Gilead. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.2.24" data-parsed="1Chr_2_24_0_0" data-passage="iChr 2.24" id="iChr.2.24"/><sup>24</sup>And after that Hezron was dead in Caleb-ephrathah, then Abijah Hezron's wife bare him Ashhur the father of Tekoa.</p>
<p id="iChr.2-p7">
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.2.25" data-parsed="1Chr_2_25_0_0" data-passage="iChr 2.25" id="iChr.2.25"/><sup>25</sup>And the sons of Jerahmeel the first-born of Hezron were Ram the first-born, and Bunah, and Oren, and Ozem, Ahijah. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.2.26" data-parsed="1Chr_2_26_0_0" data-passage="iChr 2.26" id="iChr.2.26"/><sup>26</sup>And Jerahmeel had another wife, whose name was Atarah; she was the mother of Onam. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.2.27" data-parsed="1Chr_2_27_0_0" data-passage="iChr 2.27" id="iChr.2.27"/><sup>27</sup>And the sons of Ram the first-born of Jerahmeel were Maaz, and Jamin, and Eker.

<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.2.28" data-parsed="1Chr_2_28_0_0" data-passage="iChr 2.28" id="iChr.2.28"/><sup>28</sup>And the sons of Onam were Shammai, and Jada. And the sons of Shammai:
Nadab, and Abishur. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.2.29" data-parsed="1Chr_2_29_0_0" data-passage="iChr 2.29" id="iChr.2.29"/><sup>29</sup>And the name of the wife of Abishur was Abihail;
and she bare him Ahban, and Molid. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.2.30" data-parsed="1Chr_2_30_0_0" data-passage="iChr 2.30" id="iChr.2.30"/><sup>30</sup>And the sons of Nadab: Seled, and Appaim; but Seled died without children. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.2.31" data-parsed="1Chr_2_31_0_0" data-passage="iChr 2.31" id="iChr.2.31"/><sup>31</sup>And the sons of Appaim: Ishi.
And the sons of Ishi: Sheshan. And the sons of Sheshan: Ahlai. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.2.32" data-parsed="1Chr_2_32_0_0" data-passage="iChr 2.32" id="iChr.2.32"/><sup>32</sup>And the sons of Jada the brother of Shammai: Jether, and Jonathan; and Jether died without children. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.2.33" data-parsed="1Chr_2_33_0_0" data-passage="iChr 2.33" id="iChr.2.33"/><sup>33</sup>And the sons of Jonathan: Peleth, and Zaza. These were the sons of Jerahmeel. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.2.34" data-parsed="1Chr_2_34_0_0" data-passage="iChr 2.34" id="iChr.2.34"/><sup>34</sup>Now Sheshan had no sons, but daughters. And Sheshan had a servant, an Egyptian, whose name was Jarha. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.2.35" data-parsed="1Chr_2_35_0_0" data-passage="iChr 2.35" id="iChr.2.35"/><sup>35</sup>And Sheshan gave his daughter to Jarha his servant to wife; and she bare him Attai.

<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.2.36" data-parsed="1Chr_2_36_0_0" data-passage="iChr 2.36" id="iChr.2.36"/><sup>36</sup>And Attai begat Nathan, and Nathan begat Zabad, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.2.37" data-parsed="1Chr_2_37_0_0" data-passage="iChr 2.37" id="iChr.2.37"/><sup>37</sup>and Zabad begat Ephlal, and Ephlal begat Obed, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.2.38" data-parsed="1Chr_2_38_0_0" data-passage="iChr 2.38" id="iChr.2.38"/><sup>38</sup>and Obed begat Jehu, and Jehu begat Azariah, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.2.39" data-parsed="1Chr_2_39_0_0" data-passage="iChr 2.39" id="iChr.2.39"/><sup>39</sup>and Azariah begat Helez, and Helez begat Eleasah, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.2.40" data-parsed="1Chr_2_40_0_0" data-passage="iChr 2.40" id="iChr.2.40"/><sup>40</sup>and Eleasah begat Sismai, and Sismai begat Shallum, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.2.41" data-parsed="1Chr_2_41_0_0" data-passage="iChr 2.41" id="iChr.2.41"/><sup>41</sup>and Shallum begat Jekamiah, and Jekamiah begat Elishama.</p>
<p id="iChr.2-p8">
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.2.42" data-parsed="1Chr_2_42_0_0" data-passage="iChr 2.42" id="iChr.2.42"/><sup>42</sup>And the sons of Caleb the brother of Jerahmeel were Mesha his first-born, who was the father of Ziph; and the sons of Mareshah the father of Hebron. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.2.43" data-parsed="1Chr_2_43_0_0" data-passage="iChr 2.43" id="iChr.2.43"/><sup>43</sup>And the sons of Hebron: Korah, and Tappuah, and Rekem, and Shema. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.2.44" data-parsed="1Chr_2_44_0_0" data-passage="iChr 2.44" id="iChr.2.44"/><sup>44</sup>And Shema begat Raham, the father of Jorkeam; and Rekem begat Shammai. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.2.45" data-parsed="1Chr_2_45_0_0" data-passage="iChr 2.45" id="iChr.2.45"/><sup>45</sup>And the son of Shammai was Maon; and Maon was the father of Beth-zur. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.2.46" data-parsed="1Chr_2_46_0_0" data-passage="iChr 2.46" id="iChr.2.46"/><sup>46</sup>And Ephah, Caleb's concubine, bare Haran, and Moza, and Gazez; and Haran begat Gazez. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.2.47" data-parsed="1Chr_2_47_0_0" data-passage="iChr 2.47" id="iChr.2.47"/><sup>47</sup>And the sons of Jahdai: Regem, and Jothan, and Geshan, and Pelet, and Ephah, and Shaaph. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.2.48" data-parsed="1Chr_2_48_0_0" data-passage="iChr 2.48" id="iChr.2.48"/><sup>48</sup>Maacah, Caleb's concubine, bare Sheber and Tirhanah. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.2.49" data-parsed="1Chr_2_49_0_0" data-passage="iChr 2.49" id="iChr.2.49"/><sup>49</sup>She bare also Shaaph the father of Madmannah, Sheva the father of Machbena, and the father of Gibea; and the daughter of Caleb was Achsah.</p>
<p id="iChr.2-p9">
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.2.50" data-parsed="1Chr_2_50_0_0" data-passage="iChr 2.50" id="iChr.2.50"/><sup>50</sup>These were the sons of Caleb, the son of Hur, the first-born of Ephrathah: Shobal the father of Kiriath-jearim, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.2.51" data-parsed="1Chr_2_51_0_0" data-passage="iChr 2.51" id="iChr.2.51"/><sup>51</sup>Salma the father of Beth-lehem, Hareph the father of Beth-gader. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.2.52" data-parsed="1Chr_2_52_0_0" data-passage="iChr 2.52" id="iChr.2.52"/><sup>52</sup>And Shobal the father of Kiriath-jearim had sons: Haroeh, half of the Menuhoth. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.2.53" data-parsed="1Chr_2_53_0_0" data-passage="iChr 2.53" id="iChr.2.53"/><sup>53</sup>And the families of Kiriath-jearim: The Ithrites, and the Puthites, and the Shumathites, and the Mishraites; of them came the Zorathites and the Eshtaolites. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.2.54" data-parsed="1Chr_2_54_0_0" data-passage="iChr 2.54" id="iChr.2.54"/><sup>54</sup>The sons of Salma: Beth-lehem, and the Netophathites, Atroth-beth-joab, and half of the Manahathites, the Zorites. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Chr.2.55" data-parsed="1Chr_2_55_0_0" data-passage="iChr 2.55" id="iChr.2.55"/><sup>55</sup>And the families of scribes that dwelt at Jabez: the Tirathites, the Shimeathites, the Sucathites. These are the Kenites that came of Hammath, the father of the house of Rechab.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>