<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>1 Corinthians 5</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">1 Corinthians 5</span></div><div data-next="iCor.6" data-prev="iCor.4" data-progress="92.23%" data-shorttitle="" id="iCor.5" title="1 Corinthians 5">
<h2 id="iCor.5-p0.1">5</h2>
<p id="iCor.5-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.5.1" data-parsed="1Cor_5_1_0_0" data-passage="iCor 5.1" id="iCor.5.1"/><sup>1</sup>It is actually reported that there is fornication among you, and such fornication as is not even among the Gentiles, that one <i>of you</i> hath his father's wife. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.5.2" data-parsed="1Cor_5_2_0_0" data-passage="iCor 5.2" id="iCor.5.2"/><sup>2</sup>And ye are puffed up, and did not rather mourn, that he that had done this deed might be taken away from among you. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.5.3" data-parsed="1Cor_5_3_0_0" data-passage="iCor 5.3" id="iCor.5.3"/><sup>3</sup>For I verily, being absent in body but present in spirit, have already as though I were present judged him that hath so wrought this thing, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.5.4" data-parsed="1Cor_5_4_0_0" data-passage="iCor 5.4" id="iCor.5.4"/><sup>4</sup>in the name of our Lord Jesus, ye being gathered together, and my spirit, with the power of our Lord Jesus, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.5.5" data-parsed="1Cor_5_5_0_0" data-passage="iCor 5.5" id="iCor.5.5"/><sup>5</sup>to deliver such a one unto Satan for the destruction of the flesh, that the spirit may be saved in the day of the Lord Jesus.

<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.5.6" data-parsed="1Cor_5_6_0_0" data-passage="iCor 5.6" id="iCor.5.6"/><sup>6</sup>Your glorying is not good. Know ye not that a little leaven leaveneth the whole lump? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.5.7" data-parsed="1Cor_5_7_0_0" data-passage="iCor 5.7" id="iCor.5.7"/><sup>7</sup>Purge out the old leaven, that ye may be a new lump,
even as ye are unleavened. For our passover also hath been sacrificed,
<i>even</i> Christ: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.5.8" data-parsed="1Cor_5_8_0_0" data-passage="iCor 5.8" id="iCor.5.8"/><sup>8</sup>wherefore let us keep the feast, not with old leaven, neither with the leaven of malice and wickedness, but with the unleavened bread of sincerity and truth. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.5.9" data-parsed="1Cor_5_9_0_0" data-passage="iCor 5.9" id="iCor.5.9"/><sup>9</sup>I wrote unto you in my epistle to have no company with fornicators; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.5.10" data-parsed="1Cor_5_10_0_0" data-passage="iCor 5.10" id="iCor.5.10"/><sup>10</sup>not at all <i>meaning</i> with the fornicators of this world, or with the covetous and extortioners, or with idolaters; for then must ye needs go out of the world: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.5.11" data-parsed="1Cor_5_11_0_0" data-passage="iCor 5.11" id="iCor.5.11"/><sup>11</sup>but as it is, I wrote unto you not to keep company, if any man that is named a brother be a fornicator, or covetous, or an idolater, or a reviler, or a drunkard, or an extortioner; with such a one no, not to eat. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.5.12" data-parsed="1Cor_5_12_0_0" data-passage="iCor 5.12" id="iCor.5.12"/><sup>12</sup>For what have I to do with judging them that are without? Do not ye judge them that are within?

<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.5.13" data-parsed="1Cor_5_13_0_0" data-passage="iCor 5.13" id="iCor.5.13"/><sup>13</sup>But them that are without God judgeth. Put away the wicked man from among yourselves.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>