<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>1 Corinthians 14</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">1 Corinthians 14</span></div><div data-next="iCor.15" data-prev="iCor.13" data-progress="92.84%" data-shorttitle="" id="iCor.14" title="1 Corinthians 14">
<h2 id="iCor.14-p0.1">14</h2>
<p id="iCor.14-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.14.1" data-parsed="1Cor_14_1_0_0" data-passage="iCor 14.1" id="iCor.14.1"/><sup>1</sup>Follow after love; yet desire earnestly spiritual <i>gifts</i>,
but rather that ye may prophesy. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.14.2" data-parsed="1Cor_14_2_0_0" data-passage="iCor 14.2" id="iCor.14.2"/><sup>2</sup>For he that speaketh in a tongue speaketh not unto men, but unto God; for no man understandeth; but in the spirit he speaketh mysteries. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.14.3" data-parsed="1Cor_14_3_0_0" data-passage="iCor 14.3" id="iCor.14.3"/><sup>3</sup>But he that prophesieth speaketh unto men edification, and exhortation, and consolation. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.14.4" data-parsed="1Cor_14_4_0_0" data-passage="iCor 14.4" id="iCor.14.4"/><sup>4</sup>He that speaketh in a tongue edifieth himself; but he that prophesieth edifieth the church.

<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.14.5" data-parsed="1Cor_14_5_0_0" data-passage="iCor 14.5" id="iCor.14.5"/><sup>5</sup>Now I would have you all speak with tongues, but rather that ye should prophesy: and greater is he that prophesieth than he that speaketh with tongues, except he interpret, that the church may receive edifying. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.14.6" data-parsed="1Cor_14_6_0_0" data-passage="iCor 14.6" id="iCor.14.6"/><sup>6</sup>But now, brethren, if I come unto you speaking with tongues, what shall I profit you, unless I speak to you either by way of revelation, or of knowledge, or of prophesying, or of teaching? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.14.7" data-parsed="1Cor_14_7_0_0" data-passage="iCor 14.7" id="iCor.14.7"/><sup>7</sup>Even things without life, giving a voice, whether pipe or harp, if they give not a distinction in the sounds,
how shall it be known what is piped or harped? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.14.8" data-parsed="1Cor_14_8_0_0" data-passage="iCor 14.8" id="iCor.14.8"/><sup>8</sup>For if the trumpet give an uncertain voice, who shall prepare himself for war? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.14.9" data-parsed="1Cor_14_9_0_0" data-passage="iCor 14.9" id="iCor.14.9"/><sup>9</sup>So also ye,
unless ye utter by the tongue speech easy to understood, how shall it be known what is spoken? for ye will be speaking into the air. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.14.10" data-parsed="1Cor_14_10_0_0" data-passage="iCor 14.10" id="iCor.14.10"/><sup>10</sup>There are,
it may be, so many kinds of voices in the world, and no <i>kind</i> is without signification. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.14.11" data-parsed="1Cor_14_11_0_0" data-passage="iCor 14.11" id="iCor.14.11"/><sup>11</sup>If then I know not the meaning of the voice, I shall be to him that speaketh a barbarian, and he that speaketh will be a barbarian unto me. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.14.12" data-parsed="1Cor_14_12_0_0" data-passage="iCor 14.12" id="iCor.14.12"/><sup>12</sup>So also ye, since ye are zealous of spiritual <i>gifts</i>, seek that ye may abound unto the edifying of the church.

<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.14.13" data-parsed="1Cor_14_13_0_0" data-passage="iCor 14.13" id="iCor.14.13"/><sup>13</sup>Wherefore let him that speaketh in a tongue pray that he may interpret.

<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.14.14" data-parsed="1Cor_14_14_0_0" data-passage="iCor 14.14" id="iCor.14.14"/><sup>14</sup>For if I pray in a tongue, my spirit prayeth, but my understanding is unfruitful. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.14.15" data-parsed="1Cor_14_15_0_0" data-passage="iCor 14.15" id="iCor.14.15"/><sup>15</sup>What is it then? I will pray with the spirit, and I will pray with the understanding also: I will sing with the spirit, and I will sing with the understanding also. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.14.16" data-parsed="1Cor_14_16_0_0" data-passage="iCor 14.16" id="iCor.14.16"/><sup>16</sup>Else if thou bless with the spirit,
how shall he that filleth the place of the unlearned say the Amen at thy giving of thanks, seeing he knoweth not what thou sayest? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.14.17" data-parsed="1Cor_14_17_0_0" data-passage="iCor 14.17" id="iCor.14.17"/><sup>17</sup>For thou verily givest thanks well, but the other is not edified. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.14.18" data-parsed="1Cor_14_18_0_0" data-passage="iCor 14.18" id="iCor.14.18"/><sup>18</sup>I thank God, I speak with tongues more than you all: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.14.19" data-parsed="1Cor_14_19_0_0" data-passage="iCor 14.19" id="iCor.14.19"/><sup>19</sup>howbeit in the church I had rather speak five words with my understanding, that I might instruct others also, than ten thousand words in a tongue. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.14.20" data-parsed="1Cor_14_20_0_0" data-passage="iCor 14.20" id="iCor.14.20"/><sup>20</sup>Brethren, be not children in mind: yet in malice be ye babes, but in mind be men. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.14.21" data-parsed="1Cor_14_21_0_0" data-passage="iCor 14.21" id="iCor.14.21"/><sup>21</sup>In the law it is written, By men of strange tongues and by the lips of strangers will I speak unto this people; and not even thus will they hear me, saith the Lord.

<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.14.22" data-parsed="1Cor_14_22_0_0" data-passage="iCor 14.22" id="iCor.14.22"/><sup>22</sup>Wherefore tongues are for a sign, not to them that believe, but to the unbelieving: but prophesying <i>is for a sign</i>, not to the unbelieving,
but to them that believe. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.14.23" data-parsed="1Cor_14_23_0_0" data-passage="iCor 14.23" id="iCor.14.23"/><sup>23</sup>If therefore the whole church be assembled together and all speak with tongues, and there come in men unlearned or unbelieving, will they not say that ye are mad? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.14.24" data-parsed="1Cor_14_24_0_0" data-passage="iCor 14.24" id="iCor.14.24"/><sup>24</sup>But if all prophesy,
and there come in one unbelieving or unlearned, he is reproved by all, he is judged by all; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.14.25" data-parsed="1Cor_14_25_0_0" data-passage="iCor 14.25" id="iCor.14.25"/><sup>25</sup>the secrets of his heart are made manifest; and so he will fall down on his face and worship God, declaring that God is among you indeed. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.14.26" data-parsed="1Cor_14_26_0_0" data-passage="iCor 14.26" id="iCor.14.26"/><sup>26</sup>What is it then, brethren? When ye come together, each one hath a psalm, hath a teaching, hath a revelation, hath a tongue, hath an interpretation. Let all things be done unto edifying. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.14.27" data-parsed="1Cor_14_27_0_0" data-passage="iCor 14.27" id="iCor.14.27"/><sup>27</sup>If any man speaketh in a tongue, <i>let it be</i> by two, or at the most three, and <i>that</i> in turn; and let one interpret: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.14.28" data-parsed="1Cor_14_28_0_0" data-passage="iCor 14.28" id="iCor.14.28"/><sup>28</sup>but if there be no interpreter, let him keep silence in the church; and let him speak to himself, and to God. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.14.29" data-parsed="1Cor_14_29_0_0" data-passage="iCor 14.29" id="iCor.14.29"/><sup>29</sup>And let the prophets speak <i>by</i> two or three, and let the others discern. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.14.30" data-parsed="1Cor_14_30_0_0" data-passage="iCor 14.30" id="iCor.14.30"/><sup>30</sup>But if a revelation be made to another sitting by, let the first keep silence. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.14.31" data-parsed="1Cor_14_31_0_0" data-passage="iCor 14.31" id="iCor.14.31"/><sup>31</sup>For ye all can prophesy one by one, that all may learn, and all may be exhorted; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.14.32" data-parsed="1Cor_14_32_0_0" data-passage="iCor 14.32" id="iCor.14.32"/><sup>32</sup>and the spirits of the prophets are subject to the prophets; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.14.33" data-parsed="1Cor_14_33_0_0" data-passage="iCor 14.33" id="iCor.14.33"/><sup>33</sup>for God is not <i>a God</i> of confusion, but of peace. As in all the churches of the saints, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.14.34" data-parsed="1Cor_14_34_0_0" data-passage="iCor 14.34" id="iCor.14.34"/><sup>34</sup>let the women keep silence in the churches: for it is not permitted unto them to speak; but let them be in subjection, as also saith the law. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.14.35" data-parsed="1Cor_14_35_0_0" data-passage="iCor 14.35" id="iCor.14.35"/><sup>35</sup>And if they would learn anything, let them ask their own husbands at home: for it is shameful for a woman to speak in the church.

<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.14.36" data-parsed="1Cor_14_36_0_0" data-passage="iCor 14.36" id="iCor.14.36"/><sup>36</sup>What? was it from you that the word of God went forth? or came it unto you alone? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.14.37" data-parsed="1Cor_14_37_0_0" data-passage="iCor 14.37" id="iCor.14.37"/><sup>37</sup>If any man thinketh himself to be a prophet, or spiritual,
let him take knowledge of the things which I write unto you, that they are the commandment of the Lord. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.14.38" data-parsed="1Cor_14_38_0_0" data-passage="iCor 14.38" id="iCor.14.38"/><sup>38</sup>But if any man is ignorant, let him be ignorant. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.14.39" data-parsed="1Cor_14_39_0_0" data-passage="iCor 14.39" id="iCor.14.39"/><sup>39</sup>Wherefore, my brethren, desire earnestly to prophesy, and forbid not to speak with tongues. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.14.40" data-parsed="1Cor_14_40_0_0" data-passage="iCor 14.40" id="iCor.14.40"/><sup>40</sup>But let all things be done decently and in order.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>