<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>1 Corinthians 12</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">1 Corinthians 12</span></div><div data-next="iCor.13" data-prev="iCor.11" data-progress="92.73%" data-shorttitle="" id="iCor.12" title="1 Corinthians 12">
<h2 id="iCor.12-p0.1">12</h2>
<p id="iCor.12-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.12.1" data-parsed="1Cor_12_1_0_0" data-passage="iCor 12.1" id="iCor.12.1"/><sup>1</sup>Now concerning spiritual <i>gifts</i>, brethren, I would not have you ignorant. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.12.2" data-parsed="1Cor_12_2_0_0" data-passage="iCor 12.2" id="iCor.12.2"/><sup>2</sup>Ye know that when ye were Gentiles <i>ye were</i> led away unto those dumb idols, howsoever ye might led. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.12.3" data-parsed="1Cor_12_3_0_0" data-passage="iCor 12.3" id="iCor.12.3"/><sup>3</sup>Wherefore I make known unto you, that no man speaking in the Spirit of God saith, Jesus is anathema; and no man can say, Jesus is Lord, but in the Holy Spirit. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.12.4" data-parsed="1Cor_12_4_0_0" data-passage="iCor 12.4" id="iCor.12.4"/><sup>4</sup>Now there are diversities of gifts, but the same Spirit. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.12.5" data-parsed="1Cor_12_5_0_0" data-passage="iCor 12.5" id="iCor.12.5"/><sup>5</sup>And there are diversities of ministrations, and the same Lord. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.12.6" data-parsed="1Cor_12_6_0_0" data-passage="iCor 12.6" id="iCor.12.6"/><sup>6</sup>And there are diversities of workings, but the same God, who worketh all things in all.

<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.12.7" data-parsed="1Cor_12_7_0_0" data-passage="iCor 12.7" id="iCor.12.7"/><sup>7</sup>But to each one is given the manifestation of the Spirit to profit withal. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.12.8" data-parsed="1Cor_12_8_0_0" data-passage="iCor 12.8" id="iCor.12.8"/><sup>8</sup>For to one is given through the Spirit the word of wisdom; and to another the word of knowledge, according to the same Spirit: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.12.9" data-parsed="1Cor_12_9_0_0" data-passage="iCor 12.9" id="iCor.12.9"/><sup>9</sup>to another faith, in the same Spirit; and to another gifts of healings, in the one Spirit; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.12.10" data-parsed="1Cor_12_10_0_0" data-passage="iCor 12.10" id="iCor.12.10"/><sup>10</sup>and to another workings of miracles; and to another prophecy; and to another discernings of spirits; to another <i>divers</i>
kinds of tongues; and to another the interpretation of tongues: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.12.11" data-parsed="1Cor_12_11_0_0" data-passage="iCor 12.11" id="iCor.12.11"/><sup>11</sup>but all these worketh the one and the same Spirit, dividing to each one severally even as he will. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.12.12" data-parsed="1Cor_12_12_0_0" data-passage="iCor 12.12" id="iCor.12.12"/><sup>12</sup>For as the body is one, and hath many members, and all the members of the body, being many, are one body; so also is Christ.

<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.12.13" data-parsed="1Cor_12_13_0_0" data-passage="iCor 12.13" id="iCor.12.13"/><sup>13</sup>For in one Spirit were we all baptized into one body, whether Jews or Greeks, whether bond or free; and were all made to drink of one Spirit.

<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.12.14" data-parsed="1Cor_12_14_0_0" data-passage="iCor 12.14" id="iCor.12.14"/><sup>14</sup>For the body is not one member, but many. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.12.15" data-parsed="1Cor_12_15_0_0" data-passage="iCor 12.15" id="iCor.12.15"/><sup>15</sup>If the foot shall say,
Because I am not the hand, I am not of the body; it is not therefore not of the body. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.12.16" data-parsed="1Cor_12_16_0_0" data-passage="iCor 12.16" id="iCor.12.16"/><sup>16</sup>And if the ear shall say, Because I am not the eye, I am not of the body; it is not therefore not of the body. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.12.17" data-parsed="1Cor_12_17_0_0" data-passage="iCor 12.17" id="iCor.12.17"/><sup>17</sup>If the whole body were an eye, where were the hearing? If the whole were hearing, where were the smelling? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.12.18" data-parsed="1Cor_12_18_0_0" data-passage="iCor 12.18" id="iCor.12.18"/><sup>18</sup>But now hath God set the members each one of them in the body, even as it pleased him. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.12.19" data-parsed="1Cor_12_19_0_0" data-passage="iCor 12.19" id="iCor.12.19"/><sup>19</sup>And if they were all one member, where were the body? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.12.20" data-parsed="1Cor_12_20_0_0" data-passage="iCor 12.20" id="iCor.12.20"/><sup>20</sup>But now they are many members, but one body. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.12.21" data-parsed="1Cor_12_21_0_0" data-passage="iCor 12.21" id="iCor.12.21"/><sup>21</sup>And the eye cannot say to the hand, I have no need of thee: or again the head to the feet, I have no need of you. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.12.22" data-parsed="1Cor_12_22_0_0" data-passage="iCor 12.22" id="iCor.12.22"/><sup>22</sup>Nay, much rather, those members of the body which seem to be more feeble are necessary: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.12.23" data-parsed="1Cor_12_23_0_0" data-passage="iCor 12.23" id="iCor.12.23"/><sup>23</sup>and those <i>parts</i> of the body, which we think to be less honorable, upon these we bestow more abundant honor; and our uncomely <i>parts</i> have more abundant comeliness; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.12.24" data-parsed="1Cor_12_24_0_0" data-passage="iCor 12.24" id="iCor.12.24"/><sup>24</sup>whereas our comely <i>parts</i> have no need: but God tempered the body together, giving more abundant honor to that <i>part</i>
which lacked; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.12.25" data-parsed="1Cor_12_25_0_0" data-passage="iCor 12.25" id="iCor.12.25"/><sup>25</sup>that there should be no schism in the body; but <i>that</i> the members should have the same care one for another. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.12.26" data-parsed="1Cor_12_26_0_0" data-passage="iCor 12.26" id="iCor.12.26"/><sup>26</sup>And whether one member suffereth, all the members suffer with it; or <i>one</i>
member is honored, all the members rejoice with it. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.12.27" data-parsed="1Cor_12_27_0_0" data-passage="iCor 12.27" id="iCor.12.27"/><sup>27</sup>Now ye are the body of Christ, and severally members thereof. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.12.28" data-parsed="1Cor_12_28_0_0" data-passage="iCor 12.28" id="iCor.12.28"/><sup>28</sup>And God hath set some in the church, first apostles, secondly prophets, thirdly teachers, then miracles,
then gifts of healings, helps, governments, <i>divers</i> kinds of tongues.

<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.12.29" data-parsed="1Cor_12_29_0_0" data-passage="iCor 12.29" id="iCor.12.29"/><sup>29</sup>Are all apostles? are all prophets? are all teachers? are all <i>workers of</i> miracles? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.12.30" data-parsed="1Cor_12_30_0_0" data-passage="iCor 12.30" id="iCor.12.30"/><sup>30</sup>have all gifts of healings? do all speak with tongues? do all interpret? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.12.31" data-parsed="1Cor_12_31_0_0" data-passage="iCor 12.31" id="iCor.12.31"/><sup>31</sup>But desire earnestly the greater gifts.
And moreover a most excellent way show I unto you.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>