<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>1 Corinthians 2</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">1 Corinthians 2</span></div><div data-next="iCor.3" data-prev="iCor.1" data-progress="92.07%" data-shorttitle="" id="iCor.2" title="1 Corinthians 2">
<h2 id="iCor.2-p0.1">2</h2>
<p id="iCor.2-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.2.1" data-parsed="1Cor_2_1_0_0" data-passage="iCor 2.1" id="iCor.2.1"/><sup>1</sup>And I, brethren, when I came unto you, came not with excellency of speech or of wisdom, proclaiming to you the testimony of God. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.2.2" data-parsed="1Cor_2_2_0_0" data-passage="iCor 2.2" id="iCor.2.2"/><sup>2</sup>For I determined not to know anything among you, save Jesus Christ, and him crucified. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.2.3" data-parsed="1Cor_2_3_0_0" data-passage="iCor 2.3" id="iCor.2.3"/><sup>3</sup>And I was with you in weakness, and in fear, and in much trembling. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.2.4" data-parsed="1Cor_2_4_0_0" data-passage="iCor 2.4" id="iCor.2.4"/><sup>4</sup>And my speech and my preaching were not in persuasive words of wisdom, but in demonstration of the Spirit and of power: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.2.5" data-parsed="1Cor_2_5_0_0" data-passage="iCor 2.5" id="iCor.2.5"/><sup>5</sup>that your faith should not stand in the wisdom of men, but in the power of God. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.2.6" data-parsed="1Cor_2_6_0_0" data-passage="iCor 2.6" id="iCor.2.6"/><sup>6</sup>We speak wisdom, however, among them that are fullgrown: yet a wisdom not of this world, nor of the rulers of this world, who are coming to nought:

<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.2.7" data-parsed="1Cor_2_7_0_0" data-passage="iCor 2.7" id="iCor.2.7"/><sup>7</sup>but we speak God's wisdom in a mystery, <i>even</i> the <i>wisdom</i>
that hath been hidden, which God foreordained before the worlds unto our glory: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.2.8" data-parsed="1Cor_2_8_0_0" data-passage="iCor 2.8" id="iCor.2.8"/><sup>8</sup>which none of the rulers of this world hath known: for had they known it, they would not have crucified the Lord of glory: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.2.9" data-parsed="1Cor_2_9_0_0" data-passage="iCor 2.9" id="iCor.2.9"/><sup>9</sup>but as it is written,</p>
<p class="poetry" id="iCor.2-p2">
Things which eye saw not, and ear heard not,</p>
<p class="poetry" id="iCor.2-p3">
And <i>which</i> entered not into the heart of man,</p>
<p class="poetry" id="iCor.2-p4">
Whatsoever things God prepared for them that love him.</p>
<p id="iCor.2-p5">
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.2.10" data-parsed="1Cor_2_10_0_0" data-passage="iCor 2.10" id="iCor.2.10"/><sup>10</sup>But unto us God revealed <i>them</i> through the Spirit: for the Spirit searcheth all things, yea, the deep things of God. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.2.11" data-parsed="1Cor_2_11_0_0" data-passage="iCor 2.11" id="iCor.2.11"/><sup>11</sup>For who among men knoweth the things of a man, save the spirit of the man, which is in him?
even so the things of God none knoweth, save the Spirit of God. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.2.12" data-parsed="1Cor_2_12_0_0" data-passage="iCor 2.12" id="iCor.2.12"/><sup>12</sup>But we received, not the spirit of the world, but the spirit which is from God; that we might know the things that were freely given to us of God. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.2.13" data-parsed="1Cor_2_13_0_0" data-passage="iCor 2.13" id="iCor.2.13"/><sup>13</sup>Which things also we speak, not in words which man's wisdom teacheth, but which the Spirit teacheth; combining spiritual things with spiritual <i>words</i>.

<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.2.14" data-parsed="1Cor_2_14_0_0" data-passage="iCor 2.14" id="iCor.2.14"/><sup>14</sup>Now the natural man receiveth not the things of the Spirit of God: for they are foolishness unto him; and he cannot know them, because they are spiritually judged. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.2.15" data-parsed="1Cor_2_15_0_0" data-passage="iCor 2.15" id="iCor.2.15"/><sup>15</sup>But he that is spiritual judgeth all things, and he himself is judged of no man. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.2.16" data-parsed="1Cor_2_16_0_0" data-passage="iCor 2.16" id="iCor.2.16"/><sup>16</sup>For who hath known the mind of the Lord,
that he should instruct him? But we have the mind of Christ.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>