<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>1 Corinthians 6</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">1 Corinthians 6</span></div><div data-next="iCor.7" data-prev="iCor.5" data-progress="92.27%" data-shorttitle="" id="iCor.6" title="1 Corinthians 6">
<h2 id="iCor.6-p0.1">6</h2>
<p id="iCor.6-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.6.1" data-parsed="1Cor_6_1_0_0" data-passage="iCor 6.1" id="iCor.6.1"/><sup>1</sup>Dare any of you, having a matter against his neighbor, go to law before the unrighteous, and not before the saints? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.6.2" data-parsed="1Cor_6_2_0_0" data-passage="iCor 6.2" id="iCor.6.2"/><sup>2</sup>Or know ye not that the saints shall judge the world? and if the world is judged by you, are ye unworthy to judge the smallest matters? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.6.3" data-parsed="1Cor_6_3_0_0" data-passage="iCor 6.3" id="iCor.6.3"/><sup>3</sup>Know ye not that we shall judge angels? how much more, things that pertain to this life? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.6.4" data-parsed="1Cor_6_4_0_0" data-passage="iCor 6.4" id="iCor.6.4"/><sup>4</sup>If then ye have to judge things pertaining to this life, do ye set them to judge who are of no account in the church? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.6.5" data-parsed="1Cor_6_5_0_0" data-passage="iCor 6.5" id="iCor.6.5"/><sup>5</sup>I say <i>this</i> to move you to shame. What,
cannot there be <i>found</i> among you one wise man who shall be able to decide between his brethren, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.6.6" data-parsed="1Cor_6_6_0_0" data-passage="iCor 6.6" id="iCor.6.6"/><sup>6</sup>but brother goeth to law with brother, and that before unbelievers? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.6.7" data-parsed="1Cor_6_7_0_0" data-passage="iCor 6.7" id="iCor.6.7"/><sup>7</sup>Nay, already it is altogether a defect in you,
that ye have lawsuits one with another. Why not rather take wrong? why not rather be defrauded? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.6.8" data-parsed="1Cor_6_8_0_0" data-passage="iCor 6.8" id="iCor.6.8"/><sup>8</sup>Nay, but ye yourselves do wrong, and defraud, and that <i>your</i> brethren. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.6.9" data-parsed="1Cor_6_9_0_0" data-passage="iCor 6.9" id="iCor.6.9"/><sup>9</sup>Or know ye not that the unrighteous shall not inherit the kingdom of God? Be not deceived: neither fornicators, nor idolaters, nor adulterers, nor effeminate, nor abusers of themselves with men, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.6.10" data-parsed="1Cor_6_10_0_0" data-passage="iCor 6.10" id="iCor.6.10"/><sup>10</sup>nor thieves, nor covetous, nor drunkards, nor revilers, nor extortioners, shall inherit the kingdom of God. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.6.11" data-parsed="1Cor_6_11_0_0" data-passage="iCor 6.11" id="iCor.6.11"/><sup>11</sup>And such were some of you: but ye were washed, but ye were sanctified, but ye were justified in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ, and in the Spirit of our God. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.6.12" data-parsed="1Cor_6_12_0_0" data-passage="iCor 6.12" id="iCor.6.12"/><sup>12</sup>All things are lawful for me; but not all things are expedient. All things are lawful for me; but I will not be brought under the power of any. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.6.13" data-parsed="1Cor_6_13_0_0" data-passage="iCor 6.13" id="iCor.6.13"/><sup>13</sup>Meats for the belly, and the belly for meats: but God shall bring to nought both it and them. But the body is not for fornication, but for the Lord; and the Lord for the body: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.6.14" data-parsed="1Cor_6_14_0_0" data-passage="iCor 6.14" id="iCor.6.14"/><sup>14</sup>and God both raised the Lord, and will raise up as through his power. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.6.15" data-parsed="1Cor_6_15_0_0" data-passage="iCor 6.15" id="iCor.6.15"/><sup>15</sup>Know ye not that your bodies are members of Christ? shall I then take away the members of Christ, and make them members of a harlot? God forbid. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.6.16" data-parsed="1Cor_6_16_0_0" data-passage="iCor 6.16" id="iCor.6.16"/><sup>16</sup>Or know ye not that he that is joined to a harlot is one body?
for, The twain, saith he, shall become one flesh. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.6.17" data-parsed="1Cor_6_17_0_0" data-passage="iCor 6.17" id="iCor.6.17"/><sup>17</sup>But he that is joined unto the Lord is one spirit. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.6.18" data-parsed="1Cor_6_18_0_0" data-passage="iCor 6.18" id="iCor.6.18"/><sup>18</sup>Flee fornication. Every sin that a man doeth is without the body; but he that committeth fornication sinneth against his own body. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.6.19" data-parsed="1Cor_6_19_0_0" data-passage="iCor 6.19" id="iCor.6.19"/><sup>19</sup>Or know ye not that your body is a temple of the Holy Spirit which is in you, which ye have from God? and ye are not your own;

<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.6.20" data-parsed="1Cor_6_20_0_0" data-passage="iCor 6.20" id="iCor.6.20"/><sup>20</sup>for ye were bought with a price: glorify God therefore in your body.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>