<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>1 Corinthians 9</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">1 Corinthians 9</span></div><div data-next="iCor.10" data-prev="iCor.8" data-progress="92.49%" data-shorttitle="" id="iCor.9" title="1 Corinthians 9">
<h2 id="iCor.9-p0.1">9</h2>
<p id="iCor.9-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.9.1" data-parsed="1Cor_9_1_0_0" data-passage="iCor 9.1" id="iCor.9.1"/><sup>1</sup>Am I not free? Am I not an apostle? Have I not seen Jesus our Lord?
Are not ye my work in the Lord? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.9.2" data-parsed="1Cor_9_2_0_0" data-passage="iCor 9.2" id="iCor.9.2"/><sup>2</sup>If to others I am not an apostle, yet at least I am to you; for the seal of mine apostleship are ye in the Lord.

<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.9.3" data-parsed="1Cor_9_3_0_0" data-passage="iCor 9.3" id="iCor.9.3"/><sup>3</sup>My defence to them that examine me is this. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.9.4" data-parsed="1Cor_9_4_0_0" data-passage="iCor 9.4" id="iCor.9.4"/><sup>4</sup>Have we no right to eat and to drink? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.9.5" data-parsed="1Cor_9_5_0_0" data-passage="iCor 9.5" id="iCor.9.5"/><sup>5</sup>Have we no right to lead about a wife that is a believer,
even as the rest of the apostles, and the brethren of the Lord, and Cephas?

<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.9.6" data-parsed="1Cor_9_6_0_0" data-passage="iCor 9.6" id="iCor.9.6"/><sup>6</sup>Or I only and Barnabas, have we not a right to forbear working?

<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.9.7" data-parsed="1Cor_9_7_0_0" data-passage="iCor 9.7" id="iCor.9.7"/><sup>7</sup>What soldier ever serveth at his own charges? who planteth a vineyard,
and eateth not the fruit thereof? Or who feedeth a flock, and eateth not of the milk of the flock? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.9.8" data-parsed="1Cor_9_8_0_0" data-passage="iCor 9.8" id="iCor.9.8"/><sup>8</sup>Do I speak these things after the manner of men?
or saith not the law also the same? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.9.9" data-parsed="1Cor_9_9_0_0" data-passage="iCor 9.9" id="iCor.9.9"/><sup>9</sup>For it is written in the law of Moses, Thou shalt not muzzle the ox when he treadeth out the corn. Is it for the oxen that God careth, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.9.10" data-parsed="1Cor_9_10_0_0" data-passage="iCor 9.10" id="iCor.9.10"/><sup>10</sup>or saith he it assuredly for our sake? Yea,
for our sake it was written: because he that ploweth ought to plow in hope,
and he that thresheth, <i>to thresh</i> in hope of partaking. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.9.11" data-parsed="1Cor_9_11_0_0" data-passage="iCor 9.11" id="iCor.9.11"/><sup>11</sup>If we sowed unto you spiritual things, is it a great matter if we shall reap your carnal things? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.9.12" data-parsed="1Cor_9_12_0_0" data-passage="iCor 9.12" id="iCor.9.12"/><sup>12</sup>If others partake of <i>this</i> right over you, do not we yet more? Nevertheless we did not use this right; but we bear all things,
that we may cause no hindrance to the gospel of Christ. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.9.13" data-parsed="1Cor_9_13_0_0" data-passage="iCor 9.13" id="iCor.9.13"/><sup>13</sup>Know ye not that they that minister about sacred things eat <i>of</i> the things of the temple, <i>and</i> they that wait upon the altar have their portion with the altar? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.9.14" data-parsed="1Cor_9_14_0_0" data-passage="iCor 9.14" id="iCor.9.14"/><sup>14</sup>Even so did the Lord ordain that they that proclaim the gospel should live of the gospel. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.9.15" data-parsed="1Cor_9_15_0_0" data-passage="iCor 9.15" id="iCor.9.15"/><sup>15</sup>But I have used none of these things: and I write not these things that it may be so done in my case; for <i>it were</i>
good for me rather to die, than that any man should make my glorifying void.

<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.9.16" data-parsed="1Cor_9_16_0_0" data-passage="iCor 9.16" id="iCor.9.16"/><sup>16</sup>For if I preach the gospel, I have nothing to glory of; for necessity is laid upon me; for woe is unto me, if I preach not the gospel. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.9.17" data-parsed="1Cor_9_17_0_0" data-passage="iCor 9.17" id="iCor.9.17"/><sup>17</sup>For if I do this of mine own will, I have a reward: but if not of mine own will, I have a stewardship intrusted to me. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.9.18" data-parsed="1Cor_9_18_0_0" data-passage="iCor 9.18" id="iCor.9.18"/><sup>18</sup>What then is my reward? That, when I preach the gospel, I may make the gospel without charge, so as not to use to the full my right in the gospel. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.9.19" data-parsed="1Cor_9_19_0_0" data-passage="iCor 9.19" id="iCor.9.19"/><sup>19</sup>For though I was free from all <i>men,</i> I brought myself under bondage to all, that I might gain the more. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.9.20" data-parsed="1Cor_9_20_0_0" data-passage="iCor 9.20" id="iCor.9.20"/><sup>20</sup>And to the Jews I became as a Jew, that I might gain Jews; to them that are under the law, as under the law, not being myself under the law, that I might gain them that are under the law; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.9.21" data-parsed="1Cor_9_21_0_0" data-passage="iCor 9.21" id="iCor.9.21"/><sup>21</sup>to them that are without law, as without law, not being without law to God, but under law to Christ, that I might gain them that are without law. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.9.22" data-parsed="1Cor_9_22_0_0" data-passage="iCor 9.22" id="iCor.9.22"/><sup>22</sup>To the weak I became weak, that I might gain the weak: I am become all things to all men,
that I may by all means save some. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.9.23" data-parsed="1Cor_9_23_0_0" data-passage="iCor 9.23" id="iCor.9.23"/><sup>23</sup>And I do all things for the gospel's sake, that I may be a joint partaker thereof. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.9.24" data-parsed="1Cor_9_24_0_0" data-passage="iCor 9.24" id="iCor.9.24"/><sup>24</sup>Know ye not that they that run in a race run all, but one receiveth the prize? Even so run; that ye may attain. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.9.25" data-parsed="1Cor_9_25_0_0" data-passage="iCor 9.25" id="iCor.9.25"/><sup>25</sup>And every man that striveth in the games exerciseth self-control in all things. Now they <i>do it</i> to receive a corruptible crown; but we an incorruptible. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.9.26" data-parsed="1Cor_9_26_0_0" data-passage="iCor 9.26" id="iCor.9.26"/><sup>26</sup>I therefore so run, as not uncertainly;
so fight I, as not beating the air: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.9.27" data-parsed="1Cor_9_27_0_0" data-passage="iCor 9.27" id="iCor.9.27"/><sup>27</sup>but I buffet my body, and bring it into bondage: lest by any means, after that I have preached to others, I myself should be rejected.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>