<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>1 Corinthians 11</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">1 Corinthians 11</span></div><div data-next="iCor.12" data-prev="iCor.10" data-progress="92.65%" data-shorttitle="" id="iCor.11" title="1 Corinthians 11">
<h2 id="iCor.11-p0.1">11</h2>
<p id="iCor.11-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.11.1" data-parsed="1Cor_11_1_0_0" data-passage="iCor 11.1" id="iCor.11.1"/><sup>1</sup>Be ye imitators of me, even as I also am of Christ. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.11.2" data-parsed="1Cor_11_2_0_0" data-passage="iCor 11.2" id="iCor.11.2"/><sup>2</sup>Now I praise you that ye remember me in all things, and hold fast the traditions,
even as I delivered them to you. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.11.3" data-parsed="1Cor_11_3_0_0" data-passage="iCor 11.3" id="iCor.11.3"/><sup>3</sup>But I would have you know, that the head of every man is Christ; and the head of the woman is the man; and the head of Christ is God. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.11.4" data-parsed="1Cor_11_4_0_0" data-passage="iCor 11.4" id="iCor.11.4"/><sup>4</sup>Every man praying or prophesying, having his head covered, dishonoreth his head. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.11.5" data-parsed="1Cor_11_5_0_0" data-passage="iCor 11.5" id="iCor.11.5"/><sup>5</sup>But every woman praying or prophesying with her head unveiled dishonoreth her head; for it is one and the same thing as if she were shaven. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.11.6" data-parsed="1Cor_11_6_0_0" data-passage="iCor 11.6" id="iCor.11.6"/><sup>6</sup>For if a woman is not veiled, let her also be shorn: but if it is a shame to a woman to be shorn or shaven, let her be veiled. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.11.7" data-parsed="1Cor_11_7_0_0" data-passage="iCor 11.7" id="iCor.11.7"/><sup>7</sup>For a man indeed ought not to have his head veiled, forasmuch as he is the image and glory of God: but the woman is the glory of the man.

<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.11.8" data-parsed="1Cor_11_8_0_0" data-passage="iCor 11.8" id="iCor.11.8"/><sup>8</sup>For the man is not of the woman; but the woman of the man: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.11.9" data-parsed="1Cor_11_9_0_0" data-passage="iCor 11.9" id="iCor.11.9"/><sup>9</sup>for neither was the man created for the woman; but the woman for the man:

<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.11.10" data-parsed="1Cor_11_10_0_0" data-passage="iCor 11.10" id="iCor.11.10"/><sup>10</sup>for this cause ought the woman to have <i>a sign of</i> authority on her head, because of the angels. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.11.11" data-parsed="1Cor_11_11_0_0" data-passage="iCor 11.11" id="iCor.11.11"/><sup>11</sup>Nevertheless, neither is the woman without the man, nor the man without the woman, in the Lord. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.11.12" data-parsed="1Cor_11_12_0_0" data-passage="iCor 11.12" id="iCor.11.12"/><sup>12</sup>For as the woman is of the man, so is the man also by the woman; but all things are of God. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.11.13" data-parsed="1Cor_11_13_0_0" data-passage="iCor 11.13" id="iCor.11.13"/><sup>13</sup>Judge ye in yourselves: is it seemly that a woman pray unto God unveiled? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.11.14" data-parsed="1Cor_11_14_0_0" data-passage="iCor 11.14" id="iCor.11.14"/><sup>14</sup>Doth not even nature itself teach you, that, if a man have long hair, it is a dishonor to him? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.11.15" data-parsed="1Cor_11_15_0_0" data-passage="iCor 11.15" id="iCor.11.15"/><sup>15</sup>But if a woman have long hair, it is a glory to her: for her hair is given her for a covering. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.11.16" data-parsed="1Cor_11_16_0_0" data-passage="iCor 11.16" id="iCor.11.16"/><sup>16</sup>But if any man seemeth to be contentious, we have no such custom, neither the churches of God. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.11.17" data-parsed="1Cor_11_17_0_0" data-passage="iCor 11.17" id="iCor.11.17"/><sup>17</sup>But in giving you this charge, I praise you not, that ye come together not for the better but for the worse. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.11.18" data-parsed="1Cor_11_18_0_0" data-passage="iCor 11.18" id="iCor.11.18"/><sup>18</sup>For first of all, when ye come together in the church, I hear that divisions exist among you; and I partly believe it. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.11.19" data-parsed="1Cor_11_19_0_0" data-passage="iCor 11.19" id="iCor.11.19"/><sup>19</sup>For there must be also factions among you, that they that are approved may be made manifest among you. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.11.20" data-parsed="1Cor_11_20_0_0" data-passage="iCor 11.20" id="iCor.11.20"/><sup>20</sup>When therefore ye assemble yourselves together, it is not possible to eat the Lord's supper:

<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.11.21" data-parsed="1Cor_11_21_0_0" data-passage="iCor 11.21" id="iCor.11.21"/><sup>21</sup>for in your eating each one taketh before <i>other</i> his own supper;
and one is hungry, and another is drunken. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.11.22" data-parsed="1Cor_11_22_0_0" data-passage="iCor 11.22" id="iCor.11.22"/><sup>22</sup>What, have ye not houses to eat and to drink in? or despise ye the church of God, and put them to shame that have not? What shall I say to you? shall I praise you? In this I praise you not. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.11.23" data-parsed="1Cor_11_23_0_0" data-passage="iCor 11.23" id="iCor.11.23"/><sup>23</sup>For I received of the Lord that which also I delivered unto you, that the Lord Jesus in the night in which he was betrayed took bread;

<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.11.24" data-parsed="1Cor_11_24_0_0" data-passage="iCor 11.24" id="iCor.11.24"/><sup>24</sup>and when he had given thanks, he brake it, and said, This is my body,
which is for you: this do in remembrance of me. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.11.25" data-parsed="1Cor_11_25_0_0" data-passage="iCor 11.25" id="iCor.11.25"/><sup>25</sup>In like manner also the cup, after supper, saying, This cup is the new covenant in my blood: this do,
as often as ye drink <i>it</i>, in remembrance of me. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.11.26" data-parsed="1Cor_11_26_0_0" data-passage="iCor 11.26" id="iCor.11.26"/><sup>26</sup>For as often as ye eat this bread, and drink the cup, ye proclaim the Lord's death till he come. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.11.27" data-parsed="1Cor_11_27_0_0" data-passage="iCor 11.27" id="iCor.11.27"/><sup>27</sup>Wherefore whosoever shall eat the bread or drink the cup of the Lord in an unworthy manner, shall be guilty of the body and the blood of the Lord. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.11.28" data-parsed="1Cor_11_28_0_0" data-passage="iCor 11.28" id="iCor.11.28"/><sup>28</sup>But let a man prove himself, and so let him eat of the bread, and drink of the cup. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.11.29" data-parsed="1Cor_11_29_0_0" data-passage="iCor 11.29" id="iCor.11.29"/><sup>29</sup>For he that eateth and drinketh, eateth and drinketh judgment unto himself, if he discern not the body. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.11.30" data-parsed="1Cor_11_30_0_0" data-passage="iCor 11.30" id="iCor.11.30"/><sup>30</sup>For this cause many among you are weak and sickly, and not a few sleep. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.11.31" data-parsed="1Cor_11_31_0_0" data-passage="iCor 11.31" id="iCor.11.31"/><sup>31</sup>But if we discerned ourselves, we should not be judged. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.11.32" data-parsed="1Cor_11_32_0_0" data-passage="iCor 11.32" id="iCor.11.32"/><sup>32</sup>But when we are judged, we are chastened of the Lord, that we may not be condemned with the world.

<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.11.33" data-parsed="1Cor_11_33_0_0" data-passage="iCor 11.33" id="iCor.11.33"/><sup>33</sup>Wherefore, my brethren, when ye come together to eat, wait one for another. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.11.34" data-parsed="1Cor_11_34_0_0" data-passage="iCor 11.34" id="iCor.11.34"/><sup>34</sup>If any man is hungry, let him eat at home; that your coming together be not unto judgment. And the rest will I set in order whensoever I come.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>