<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>1 Corinthians 8</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">1 Corinthians 8</span></div><div data-next="iCor.9" data-prev="iCor.7" data-progress="92.45%" data-shorttitle="" id="iCor.8" title="1 Corinthians 8">
<h2 id="iCor.8-p0.1">8</h2>
<p id="iCor.8-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.8.1" data-parsed="1Cor_8_1_0_0" data-passage="iCor 8.1" id="iCor.8.1"/><sup>1</sup>Now concerning things sacrificed to idols: We know that we all have knowledge. Knowledge puffeth up, but love edifieth. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.8.2" data-parsed="1Cor_8_2_0_0" data-passage="iCor 8.2" id="iCor.8.2"/><sup>2</sup>If any man thinketh that he knoweth anything, he knoweth not yet as he ought to know; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.8.3" data-parsed="1Cor_8_3_0_0" data-passage="iCor 8.3" id="iCor.8.3"/><sup>3</sup>but if any man loveth God, the same is known by him. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.8.4" data-parsed="1Cor_8_4_0_0" data-passage="iCor 8.4" id="iCor.8.4"/><sup>4</sup>Concerning therefore the eating of things sacrificed to idols, we know that no idol is <i>anything</i> in the world, and that there is no God but one. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.8.5" data-parsed="1Cor_8_5_0_0" data-passage="iCor 8.5" id="iCor.8.5"/><sup>5</sup>For though there be that are called gods, whether in heaven or on earth; as there are gods many, and lords many; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.8.6" data-parsed="1Cor_8_6_0_0" data-passage="iCor 8.6" id="iCor.8.6"/><sup>6</sup>yet to us there is one God, the Father,
of whom are all things, and we unto him; and one Lord, Jesus Christ, through whom are all things, and we through him. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.8.7" data-parsed="1Cor_8_7_0_0" data-passage="iCor 8.7" id="iCor.8.7"/><sup>7</sup>Howbeit there is not in all men that knowledge: but some, being used until now to the idol, eat as <i>of</i>
a thing sacrificed to an idol; and their conscience being weak is defiled.

<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.8.8" data-parsed="1Cor_8_8_0_0" data-passage="iCor 8.8" id="iCor.8.8"/><sup>8</sup>But food will not commend us to God: neither, if we eat not, are we the worse; nor, if we eat, are we the better. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.8.9" data-parsed="1Cor_8_9_0_0" data-passage="iCor 8.9" id="iCor.8.9"/><sup>9</sup>But take heed lest by any means this liberty of yours become a stumblingblock to the weak. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.8.10" data-parsed="1Cor_8_10_0_0" data-passage="iCor 8.10" id="iCor.8.10"/><sup>10</sup>For if a man see thee who hast knowledge sitting at meat in an idol's temple, will not his conscience, if he is weak, be emboldened to eat things sacrificed to idols? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.8.11" data-parsed="1Cor_8_11_0_0" data-passage="iCor 8.11" id="iCor.8.11"/><sup>11</sup>For through thy knowledge he that is weak perisheth, the brother for whose sake Christ died. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.8.12" data-parsed="1Cor_8_12_0_0" data-passage="iCor 8.12" id="iCor.8.12"/><sup>12</sup>And thus, sinning against the brethren, and wounding their conscience when it is weak, ye sin against Christ.

<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.8.13" data-parsed="1Cor_8_13_0_0" data-passage="iCor 8.13" id="iCor.8.13"/><sup>13</sup>Wherefore, if meat causeth my brother to stumble, I will eat no flesh for evermore, that I cause not my brother to stumble.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>