<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>1 Corinthians 10</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">1 Corinthians 10</span></div><div data-next="iCor.11" data-prev="iCor.9" data-progress="92.57%" data-shorttitle="" id="iCor.10" title="1 Corinthians 10">
<h2 id="iCor.10-p0.1">10</h2>
<p id="iCor.10-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.10.1" data-parsed="1Cor_10_1_0_0" data-passage="iCor 10.1" id="iCor.10.1"/><sup>1</sup>For I would not, brethren, have you ignorant, that our fathers were all under the cloud, and all passed through the sea; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.10.2" data-parsed="1Cor_10_2_0_0" data-passage="iCor 10.2" id="iCor.10.2"/><sup>2</sup>and were all baptized unto Moses in the cloud and in the sea; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.10.3" data-parsed="1Cor_10_3_0_0" data-passage="iCor 10.3" id="iCor.10.3"/><sup>3</sup>and did all eat the same spiritual food; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.10.4" data-parsed="1Cor_10_4_0_0" data-passage="iCor 10.4" id="iCor.10.4"/><sup>4</sup>and did all drink the same spiritual drink: for they drank of a spiritual rock that followed them: and the rock was Christ.

<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.10.5" data-parsed="1Cor_10_5_0_0" data-passage="iCor 10.5" id="iCor.10.5"/><sup>5</sup>Howbeit with most of them God was not well pleased: for they were overthrown in the wilderness. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.10.6" data-parsed="1Cor_10_6_0_0" data-passage="iCor 10.6" id="iCor.10.6"/><sup>6</sup>Now these things were our examples, to the intent we should not lust after evil things, as they also lusted.

<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.10.7" data-parsed="1Cor_10_7_0_0" data-passage="iCor 10.7" id="iCor.10.7"/><sup>7</sup>Neither be ye idolaters, as were some of them; as it is written, The people sat down to eat and drink, and rose up to play. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.10.8" data-parsed="1Cor_10_8_0_0" data-passage="iCor 10.8" id="iCor.10.8"/><sup>8</sup>Neither let us commit fornication, as some of them committed, and fell in one day three and twenty thousand. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.10.9" data-parsed="1Cor_10_9_0_0" data-passage="iCor 10.9" id="iCor.10.9"/><sup>9</sup>Neither let us make trial of the Lord, as some of them made trial, and perished by the serpents. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.10.10" data-parsed="1Cor_10_10_0_0" data-passage="iCor 10.10" id="iCor.10.10"/><sup>10</sup>Neither murmur ye, as some of them murmured, and perished by the destroyer. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.10.11" data-parsed="1Cor_10_11_0_0" data-passage="iCor 10.11" id="iCor.10.11"/><sup>11</sup>Now these things happened unto them by way of example; and they were written for our admonition, upon whom the ends of the ages are come. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.10.12" data-parsed="1Cor_10_12_0_0" data-passage="iCor 10.12" id="iCor.10.12"/><sup>12</sup>Wherefore let him that thinketh he standeth take heed lest he fall. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.10.13" data-parsed="1Cor_10_13_0_0" data-passage="iCor 10.13" id="iCor.10.13"/><sup>13</sup>There hath no temptation taken you but such as man can bear: but God is faithful, who will not suffer you to be tempted above that ye are able; but will with the temptation make also the way of escape, that ye may be able to endure it. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.10.14" data-parsed="1Cor_10_14_0_0" data-passage="iCor 10.14" id="iCor.10.14"/><sup>14</sup>Wherefore, my beloved,
flee from idolatry. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.10.15" data-parsed="1Cor_10_15_0_0" data-passage="iCor 10.15" id="iCor.10.15"/><sup>15</sup>I speak as to wise men; judge ye what I say.

<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.10.16" data-parsed="1Cor_10_16_0_0" data-passage="iCor 10.16" id="iCor.10.16"/><sup>16</sup>The cup of blessing which we bless, is it not a communion of the blood of Christ? The bread which we break, is it not a communion of the body of Christ? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.10.17" data-parsed="1Cor_10_17_0_0" data-passage="iCor 10.17" id="iCor.10.17"/><sup>17</sup>seeing that we, who are many, are one bread, one body: for we are all partake of the one bread. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.10.18" data-parsed="1Cor_10_18_0_0" data-passage="iCor 10.18" id="iCor.10.18"/><sup>18</sup>Behold Israel after the flesh: have not they that eat the sacrifices communion with the altar? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.10.19" data-parsed="1Cor_10_19_0_0" data-passage="iCor 10.19" id="iCor.10.19"/><sup>19</sup>What say I then? that a thing sacrificed to idols is anything, or that an idol is anything? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.10.20" data-parsed="1Cor_10_20_0_0" data-passage="iCor 10.20" id="iCor.10.20"/><sup>20</sup>But <i>I say</i>, that the things which the Gentiles sacrifice, they sacrifice to demons, and not to God: and I would not that ye should have communion with demons. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.10.21" data-parsed="1Cor_10_21_0_0" data-passage="iCor 10.21" id="iCor.10.21"/><sup>21</sup>Ye cannot drink the cup of the Lord,
and the cup of demons: ye cannot partake of the table of the Lord, and of the table of demons. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.10.22" data-parsed="1Cor_10_22_0_0" data-passage="iCor 10.22" id="iCor.10.22"/><sup>22</sup>Or do we provoke the Lord to jealousy? are we stronger than he? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.10.23" data-parsed="1Cor_10_23_0_0" data-passage="iCor 10.23" id="iCor.10.23"/><sup>23</sup>All things are lawful; but not all things are expedient. All things are lawful; but not all things edify. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.10.24" data-parsed="1Cor_10_24_0_0" data-passage="iCor 10.24" id="iCor.10.24"/><sup>24</sup>Let no man seek his own,
but <i>each</i> his neighbor's <i>good</i>. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.10.25" data-parsed="1Cor_10_25_0_0" data-passage="iCor 10.25" id="iCor.10.25"/><sup>25</sup>Whatsoever is sold in the shambles, eat, asking no question for conscience' sake, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.10.26" data-parsed="1Cor_10_26_0_0" data-passage="iCor 10.26" id="iCor.10.26"/><sup>26</sup>for the earth is the Lord's, and the fulness thereof. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.10.27" data-parsed="1Cor_10_27_0_0" data-passage="iCor 10.27" id="iCor.10.27"/><sup>27</sup>If one of them that believe not biddeth you <i>to a feast</i>, and ye are disposed to go; whatsoever is set before you, eat, asking no question for conscience' sake. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.10.28" data-parsed="1Cor_10_28_0_0" data-passage="iCor 10.28" id="iCor.10.28"/><sup>28</sup>But if any man say unto you, This hath been offered in sacrifice, eat not, for his sake that showed it, and for conscience sake: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.10.29" data-parsed="1Cor_10_29_0_0" data-passage="iCor 10.29" id="iCor.10.29"/><sup>29</sup>conscience, I say, not thine own, but the other's; for why is my liberty judged by another conscience?

<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.10.30" data-parsed="1Cor_10_30_0_0" data-passage="iCor 10.30" id="iCor.10.30"/><sup>30</sup>If I partake with thankfulness, why am I evil spoken of for that for which I give thanks? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.10.31" data-parsed="1Cor_10_31_0_0" data-passage="iCor 10.31" id="iCor.10.31"/><sup>31</sup>Whether therefore ye eat, or drink, or whatsoever ye do, do all to the glory of God. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.10.32" data-parsed="1Cor_10_32_0_0" data-passage="iCor 10.32" id="iCor.10.32"/><sup>32</sup>Give no occasions of stumbling,
either to Jews, or to Greeks, or to the church of God: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.10.33" data-parsed="1Cor_10_33_0_0" data-passage="iCor 10.33" id="iCor.10.33"/><sup>33</sup>even as I also please all men in all things, not seeking mine own profit, but the <i>profit</i> of the many, that they may be saved.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>