<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>1 Corinthians 7</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">1 Corinthians 7</span></div><div data-next="iCor.8" data-prev="iCor.6" data-progress="92.33%" data-shorttitle="" id="iCor.7" title="1 Corinthians 7">
<h2 id="iCor.7-p0.1">7</h2>
<p id="iCor.7-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.7.1" data-parsed="1Cor_7_1_0_0" data-passage="iCor 7.1" id="iCor.7.1"/><sup>1</sup>Now concerning the things whereof ye wrote: It is good for a man not to touch a woman. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.7.2" data-parsed="1Cor_7_2_0_0" data-passage="iCor 7.2" id="iCor.7.2"/><sup>2</sup>But, because of fornications, let each man have his own wife, and let each woman have her own husband. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.7.3" data-parsed="1Cor_7_3_0_0" data-passage="iCor 7.3" id="iCor.7.3"/><sup>3</sup>Let the husband render unto the wife her due: and likewise also the wife unto the husband.

<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.7.4" data-parsed="1Cor_7_4_0_0" data-passage="iCor 7.4" id="iCor.7.4"/><sup>4</sup>The wife hath not power over her own body, but the husband: and likewise also the husband hath not power over his own body, but the wife. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.7.5" data-parsed="1Cor_7_5_0_0" data-passage="iCor 7.5" id="iCor.7.5"/><sup>5</sup>Defraud ye not one the other, except it be by consent for a season, that ye may give yourselves unto prayer, and may be together again, that Satan tempt you not because of your incontinency. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.7.6" data-parsed="1Cor_7_6_0_0" data-passage="iCor 7.6" id="iCor.7.6"/><sup>6</sup>But this I say by way of concession, not of commandment. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.7.7" data-parsed="1Cor_7_7_0_0" data-passage="iCor 7.7" id="iCor.7.7"/><sup>7</sup>Yet I would that all men were even as I myself. Howbeit each man hath his own gift from God, one after this manner, and another after that. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.7.8" data-parsed="1Cor_7_8_0_0" data-passage="iCor 7.8" id="iCor.7.8"/><sup>8</sup>But I say to the unmarried and to widows, It is good for them if they abide even as I. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.7.9" data-parsed="1Cor_7_9_0_0" data-passage="iCor 7.9" id="iCor.7.9"/><sup>9</sup>But if they have not continency, let them marry:
for it is better to marry than to burn. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.7.10" data-parsed="1Cor_7_10_0_0" data-passage="iCor 7.10" id="iCor.7.10"/><sup>10</sup>But unto the married I give charge, <i>yea</i> not I, but the Lord, That the wife depart not from her husband 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.7.11" data-parsed="1Cor_7_11_0_0" data-passage="iCor 7.11" id="iCor.7.11"/><sup>11</sup>(but should she depart, let her remain unmarried, or else be reconciled to her husband); and that the husband leave not his wife.

<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.7.12" data-parsed="1Cor_7_12_0_0" data-passage="iCor 7.12" id="iCor.7.12"/><sup>12</sup>But to the rest say I, not the Lord: If any brother hath an unbelieving wife, and she is content to dwell with him, let him not leave her. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.7.13" data-parsed="1Cor_7_13_0_0" data-passage="iCor 7.13" id="iCor.7.13"/><sup>13</sup>And the woman that hath an unbelieving husband, and he is content to dwell with her, let her not leave her husband. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.7.14" data-parsed="1Cor_7_14_0_0" data-passage="iCor 7.14" id="iCor.7.14"/><sup>14</sup>For the unbelieving husband is sanctified in the wife, and the unbelieving wife is sanctified in the brother: else were your children unclean; but now are they holy. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.7.15" data-parsed="1Cor_7_15_0_0" data-passage="iCor 7.15" id="iCor.7.15"/><sup>15</sup>Yet if the unbelieving departeth, let him depart: the brother or the sister is not under bondage in such <i>cases</i>: but God hath called us in peace.

<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.7.16" data-parsed="1Cor_7_16_0_0" data-passage="iCor 7.16" id="iCor.7.16"/><sup>16</sup>For how knowest thou, O wife, whether thou shalt save thy husband? Or how knowest thou, O husband, whether thou shalt save thy wife? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.7.17" data-parsed="1Cor_7_17_0_0" data-passage="iCor 7.17" id="iCor.7.17"/><sup>17</sup>Only, as the Lord hath distributed to each man, as God hath called each, so let him walk. And so ordain I in all the churches. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.7.18" data-parsed="1Cor_7_18_0_0" data-passage="iCor 7.18" id="iCor.7.18"/><sup>18</sup>Was any man called being circumcised? Let him not become uncircumcised. Hath any been called in uncircumcision? Let him not be circumcised. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.7.19" data-parsed="1Cor_7_19_0_0" data-passage="iCor 7.19" id="iCor.7.19"/><sup>19</sup>Circumcision is nothing,
and uncircumcision is nothing; but the keeping of the commandments of God.

<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.7.20" data-parsed="1Cor_7_20_0_0" data-passage="iCor 7.20" id="iCor.7.20"/><sup>20</sup>Let each man abide in that calling wherein he was called. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.7.21" data-parsed="1Cor_7_21_0_0" data-passage="iCor 7.21" id="iCor.7.21"/><sup>21</sup>Wast thou called being a bondservant? Care not for it: nay, even if thou canst become free, use <i>it</i> rather. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.7.22" data-parsed="1Cor_7_22_0_0" data-passage="iCor 7.22" id="iCor.7.22"/><sup>22</sup>For he that was called in the Lord being a bondservant, is the Lord's freedman: likewise he that was called being free, is Christ's bondservant. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.7.23" data-parsed="1Cor_7_23_0_0" data-passage="iCor 7.23" id="iCor.7.23"/><sup>23</sup>Ye were bought with a price;
become not bondservants of men. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.7.24" data-parsed="1Cor_7_24_0_0" data-passage="iCor 7.24" id="iCor.7.24"/><sup>24</sup>Brethren, let each man, wherein he was called, therein abide with God. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.7.25" data-parsed="1Cor_7_25_0_0" data-passage="iCor 7.25" id="iCor.7.25"/><sup>25</sup>Now concerning virgins I have no commandment of the Lord: but I give my judgment, as one that hath obtained mercy of the Lord to be trustworthy. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.7.26" data-parsed="1Cor_7_26_0_0" data-passage="iCor 7.26" id="iCor.7.26"/><sup>26</sup>I think therefore that this is good by reason of the distress that is upon us, <i>namely,</i> that it is good for a man to be as he is. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.7.27" data-parsed="1Cor_7_27_0_0" data-passage="iCor 7.27" id="iCor.7.27"/><sup>27</sup>Art thou bound unto a wife? Seek not to be loosed. Art thou loosed from a wife? Seek not a wife. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.7.28" data-parsed="1Cor_7_28_0_0" data-passage="iCor 7.28" id="iCor.7.28"/><sup>28</sup>But shouldest thou marry, thou hast not sinned; and if a virgin marry, she hath not sinned.
Yet such shall have tribulation in the flesh: and I would spare you.

<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.7.29" data-parsed="1Cor_7_29_0_0" data-passage="iCor 7.29" id="iCor.7.29"/><sup>29</sup>But this I say, brethren, the time is shortened, that henceforth both those that have wives may be as though they had none; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.7.30" data-parsed="1Cor_7_30_0_0" data-passage="iCor 7.30" id="iCor.7.30"/><sup>30</sup>and those that weep, as though they wept not; and those that rejoice, as though they rejoiced not; and those that buy, as though they possessed not; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.7.31" data-parsed="1Cor_7_31_0_0" data-passage="iCor 7.31" id="iCor.7.31"/><sup>31</sup>and those that use the world, as not using it to the full: for the fashion of this world passeth away. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.7.32" data-parsed="1Cor_7_32_0_0" data-passage="iCor 7.32" id="iCor.7.32"/><sup>32</sup>But I would have you to be free from cares. He that is unmarried is careful for the things of the Lord, how he may please the Lord: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.7.33" data-parsed="1Cor_7_33_0_0" data-passage="iCor 7.33" id="iCor.7.33"/><sup>33</sup>but he that is married is careful for the things of the world, how he may please his wife, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.7.34" data-parsed="1Cor_7_34_0_0" data-passage="iCor 7.34" id="iCor.7.34"/><sup>34</sup>and is divided. <i>So</i> also the woman that is unmarried and the virgin is careful for the things of the Lord,
that she may be holy both in body and in spirit: but she that is married is careful for the things of the world, how she may please her husband.

<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.7.35" data-parsed="1Cor_7_35_0_0" data-passage="iCor 7.35" id="iCor.7.35"/><sup>35</sup>And this I say for your own profit; not that I may cast a snare upon you, but for that which is seemly, and that ye may attend upon the Lord without distraction. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.7.36" data-parsed="1Cor_7_36_0_0" data-passage="iCor 7.36" id="iCor.7.36"/><sup>36</sup>But if any man thinketh that he behaveth himself unseemly toward his virgin <i>daughter</i>, if she be past the flower of her age, and if need so requireth, let him do what he will; he sinneth not; let them marry. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.7.37" data-parsed="1Cor_7_37_0_0" data-passage="iCor 7.37" id="iCor.7.37"/><sup>37</sup>But he that standeth stedfast in his heart, having no necessity, but hath power as touching in his own heart, to keep his own virgin <i>daughter</i>, shall do well. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.7.38" data-parsed="1Cor_7_38_0_0" data-passage="iCor 7.38" id="iCor.7.38"/><sup>38</sup>So then both he that giveth his own virgin <i>daughter</i> in marriage doeth well; and he that giveth her not in marriage shall do better. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.7.39" data-parsed="1Cor_7_39_0_0" data-passage="iCor 7.39" id="iCor.7.39"/><sup>39</sup>A wife is bound for so long time as her husband liveth; but if the husband be dead, she is free to be married to whom she will; only in the Lord. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.7.40" data-parsed="1Cor_7_40_0_0" data-passage="iCor 7.40" id="iCor.7.40"/><sup>40</sup>But she is happier if she abide as she is, after my judgment: and I think that I also have the Spirit of God.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>