<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>1 Corinthians 3</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">1 Corinthians 3</span></div><div data-next="iCor.4" data-prev="iCor.2" data-progress="92.12%" data-shorttitle="" id="iCor.3" title="1 Corinthians 3">
<h2 id="iCor.3-p0.1">3</h2>
<p id="iCor.3-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.3.1" data-parsed="1Cor_3_1_0_0" data-passage="iCor 3.1" id="iCor.3.1"/><sup>1</sup>And I, brethren, could not speak unto you as unto spiritual, but as unto carnal, as unto babes in Christ. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.3.2" data-parsed="1Cor_3_2_0_0" data-passage="iCor 3.2" id="iCor.3.2"/><sup>2</sup>I fed you with milk, not with meat; for ye were not yet able <i>to bear it</i>: nay, not even now are ye able; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.3.3" data-parsed="1Cor_3_3_0_0" data-passage="iCor 3.3" id="iCor.3.3"/><sup>3</sup>for ye are yet carnal: for whereas there is among you jealousy and strife, are ye not carnal, and do ye not walk after the manner of men?

<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.3.4" data-parsed="1Cor_3_4_0_0" data-passage="iCor 3.4" id="iCor.3.4"/><sup>4</sup>For when one saith, I am of Paul; and another, I am of Apollos; are ye not men? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.3.5" data-parsed="1Cor_3_5_0_0" data-passage="iCor 3.5" id="iCor.3.5"/><sup>5</sup>What then is Apollos? and what is Paul? Ministers through whom ye believed; and each as the Lord gave to him. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.3.6" data-parsed="1Cor_3_6_0_0" data-passage="iCor 3.6" id="iCor.3.6"/><sup>6</sup>I planted, Apollos watered; but God gave the increase. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.3.7" data-parsed="1Cor_3_7_0_0" data-passage="iCor 3.7" id="iCor.3.7"/><sup>7</sup>So then neither is he that planteth anything, neither he that watereth; but God that giveth the increase.

<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.3.8" data-parsed="1Cor_3_8_0_0" data-passage="iCor 3.8" id="iCor.3.8"/><sup>8</sup>Now he that planteth and he that watereth are one: but each shall receive his own reward according to his own labor. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.3.9" data-parsed="1Cor_3_9_0_0" data-passage="iCor 3.9" id="iCor.3.9"/><sup>9</sup>For we are God's fellow-workers: ye are God's husbandry, God's building. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.3.10" data-parsed="1Cor_3_10_0_0" data-passage="iCor 3.10" id="iCor.3.10"/><sup>10</sup>According to the grace of God which was given unto me, as a wise masterbuilder I laid a foundation; and another buildeth thereon. But let each man take heed how he buildeth thereon. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.3.11" data-parsed="1Cor_3_11_0_0" data-passage="iCor 3.11" id="iCor.3.11"/><sup>11</sup>For other foundation can no man lay than that which is laid, which is Jesus Christ. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.3.12" data-parsed="1Cor_3_12_0_0" data-passage="iCor 3.12" id="iCor.3.12"/><sup>12</sup>But if any man buildeth on the foundation gold, silver, costly stones, wood, hay, stubble; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.3.13" data-parsed="1Cor_3_13_0_0" data-passage="iCor 3.13" id="iCor.3.13"/><sup>13</sup>each man's work shall be made manifest: for the day shall declare it, because it is revealed in fire; and the fire itself shall prove each man's work of what sort it is. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.3.14" data-parsed="1Cor_3_14_0_0" data-passage="iCor 3.14" id="iCor.3.14"/><sup>14</sup>If any man's work shall abide which he built thereon, he shall receive a reward. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.3.15" data-parsed="1Cor_3_15_0_0" data-passage="iCor 3.15" id="iCor.3.15"/><sup>15</sup>If any man's work shall be burned, he shall suffer loss: but he himself shall be saved; yet so as through fire.

<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.3.16" data-parsed="1Cor_3_16_0_0" data-passage="iCor 3.16" id="iCor.3.16"/><sup>16</sup>Know ye not that ye are a temple of God, and <i>that</i> the Spirit of God dwelleth in you? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.3.17" data-parsed="1Cor_3_17_0_0" data-passage="iCor 3.17" id="iCor.3.17"/><sup>17</sup>If any man destroyeth the temple of God, him shall God destroy; for the temple of God is holy, and such are ye. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.3.18" data-parsed="1Cor_3_18_0_0" data-passage="iCor 3.18" id="iCor.3.18"/><sup>18</sup>Let no man deceive himself. If any man thinketh that he is wise among you in this world,
let him become a fool, that he may become wise. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.3.19" data-parsed="1Cor_3_19_0_0" data-passage="iCor 3.19" id="iCor.3.19"/><sup>19</sup>For the wisdom of this world is foolishness with God. For it is written, He that taketh the wise in their craftiness: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.3.20" data-parsed="1Cor_3_20_0_0" data-passage="iCor 3.20" id="iCor.3.20"/><sup>20</sup>and again, The Lord knoweth the reasonings of the wise that they are vain. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.3.21" data-parsed="1Cor_3_21_0_0" data-passage="iCor 3.21" id="iCor.3.21"/><sup>21</sup>Wherefore let no one glory in men. For all things are yours; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.3.22" data-parsed="1Cor_3_22_0_0" data-passage="iCor 3.22" id="iCor.3.22"/><sup>22</sup>whether Paul, or Apollos, or Cephas, or the world, or life, or death, or things present, or things to come; all are yours;

<span data-osisref="Bible:1Cor.3.23" data-parsed="1Cor_3_23_0_0" data-passage="iCor 3.23" id="iCor.3.23"/><sup>23</sup>and ye are Christ's; and Christ is God's.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>