<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>2 Chronicles 26</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">2 Chronicles 26</span></div><div data-next="iiChr.27" data-prev="iiChr.25" data-progress="41.64%" data-shorttitle="" id="iiChr.26" title="2 Chronicles 26">
<h2 id="iiChr.26-p0.1">26</h2>
<p id="iiChr.26-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Chr.26.1" data-parsed="2Chr_26_1_0_0" data-passage="iiChr 26.1" id="iiChr.26.1"/><sup>1</sup>And all the people of Judah took Uzziah, who was sixteen years old, and made him king in the room of his father Amaziah. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Chr.26.2" data-parsed="2Chr_26_2_0_0" data-passage="iiChr 26.2" id="iiChr.26.2"/><sup>2</sup>He built Eloth, and restored it to Judah, after that the king slept with his fathers.

<span data-osisref="Bible:2Chr.26.3" data-parsed="2Chr_26_3_0_0" data-passage="iiChr 26.3" id="iiChr.26.3"/><sup>3</sup>Sixteen years old was Uzziah when he began to reign; and he reigned fifty and two years in Jerusalem: and his mother's name was Jechiliah, of Jerusalem. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Chr.26.4" data-parsed="2Chr_26_4_0_0" data-passage="iiChr 26.4" id="iiChr.26.4"/><sup>4</sup>And he did that which was right in the eyes of Jehovah,
according to all that his father Amaziah had done. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Chr.26.5" data-parsed="2Chr_26_5_0_0" data-passage="iiChr 26.5" id="iiChr.26.5"/><sup>5</sup>And he set himself to seek God in the days of Zechariah, who had understanding in the vision of God: and as long as he sought Jehovah, God made him to prosper. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Chr.26.6" data-parsed="2Chr_26_6_0_0" data-passage="iiChr 26.6" id="iiChr.26.6"/><sup>6</sup>And he went forth and warred against the Philistines, and brake down the wall of Gath, and the wall of Jabneh, and the wall of Ashdod; and he built cities in <i>the country of</i> Ashdod, and among the Philistines. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Chr.26.7" data-parsed="2Chr_26_7_0_0" data-passage="iiChr 26.7" id="iiChr.26.7"/><sup>7</sup>And God helped him against the Philistines, and against the Arabians that dwelt in Gur-baal,
and the Meunim. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Chr.26.8" data-parsed="2Chr_26_8_0_0" data-passage="iiChr 26.8" id="iiChr.26.8"/><sup>8</sup>And the Ammonites gave tribute to Uzziah: and his name spread abroad even to the entrance of Egypt; for he waxed exceeding strong.

<span data-osisref="Bible:2Chr.26.9" data-parsed="2Chr_26_9_0_0" data-passage="iiChr 26.9" id="iiChr.26.9"/><sup>9</sup>Moreover Uzziah built towers in Jerusalem at the corner gate, and at the valley gate, and at the turning <i>of the wall</i>, and fortified them.

<span data-osisref="Bible:2Chr.26.10" data-parsed="2Chr_26_10_0_0" data-passage="iiChr 26.10" id="iiChr.26.10"/><sup>10</sup>And he built towers in the wilderness, and hewed out many cisterns, for he had much cattle; in the lowland also, and in the plain: <i>and he had</i>
husbandmen and vinedressers in the mountains and in the fruitful fields; for he loved husbandry. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Chr.26.11" data-parsed="2Chr_26_11_0_0" data-passage="iiChr 26.11" id="iiChr.26.11"/><sup>11</sup>Moreover Uzziah had an army of fighting men, that went out to war by bands, according to the number of their reckoning made by Jeiel the scribe and Maaseiah the officer, under the hand of Hananiah, one of the king's captains. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Chr.26.12" data-parsed="2Chr_26_12_0_0" data-passage="iiChr 26.12" id="iiChr.26.12"/><sup>12</sup>The whole number of the heads of fathers'
<i>houses</i>, even the mighty men of valor, was two thousand and six hundred. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Chr.26.13" data-parsed="2Chr_26_13_0_0" data-passage="iiChr 26.13" id="iiChr.26.13"/><sup>13</sup>And under their hand was an army, three hundred thousand and seven thousand and five hundred, that made war with mighty power, to help the king against the enemy. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Chr.26.14" data-parsed="2Chr_26_14_0_0" data-passage="iiChr 26.14" id="iiChr.26.14"/><sup>14</sup>And Uzziah prepared for them, even for all the host, shields, and spears, and helmets, and coats of mail, and bows, and stones for slinging. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Chr.26.15" data-parsed="2Chr_26_15_0_0" data-passage="iiChr 26.15" id="iiChr.26.15"/><sup>15</sup>And he made in Jerusalem engines, invented by skilful men, to be on the towers and upon the battlements, wherewith to shoot arrows and great stones. And his name spread far abroad; for he was marvellously helped, till he was strong. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Chr.26.16" data-parsed="2Chr_26_16_0_0" data-passage="iiChr 26.16" id="iiChr.26.16"/><sup>16</sup>But when he was strong, his heart was lifted up, so that he did corruptly, and he trespassed against Jehovah his God; for he went into the temple of Jehovah to burn incense upon the altar of incense. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Chr.26.17" data-parsed="2Chr_26_17_0_0" data-passage="iiChr 26.17" id="iiChr.26.17"/><sup>17</sup>And Azariah the priest went in after him, and with him fourscore priests of Jehovah, that were valiant men: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Chr.26.18" data-parsed="2Chr_26_18_0_0" data-passage="iiChr 26.18" id="iiChr.26.18"/><sup>18</sup>and they withstood Uzziah the king, and said unto him, It pertaineth not unto thee,
Uzziah, to burn incense unto Jehovah, but to the priests the sons of Aaron,
that are consecrated to burn incense: go out of the sanctuary; for thou hast trespassed; neither shall it be for thine honor from Jehovah God. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Chr.26.19" data-parsed="2Chr_26_19_0_0" data-passage="iiChr 26.19" id="iiChr.26.19"/><sup>19</sup>Then Uzziah was wroth; and he had a censer in his hand to burn incense; and while he was wroth with the priests, the leprosy brake forth in his forehead before the priests in the house of Jehovah, beside the altar of incense. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Chr.26.20" data-parsed="2Chr_26_20_0_0" data-passage="iiChr 26.20" id="iiChr.26.20"/><sup>20</sup>And Azariah the chief priest, and all the priests, looked upon him, and, behold,
he was leprous in his forehead, and they thrust him out quickly from thence;
yea, himself hasted also to go out, because Jehovah had smitten him.

<span data-osisref="Bible:2Chr.26.21" data-parsed="2Chr_26_21_0_0" data-passage="iiChr 26.21" id="iiChr.26.21"/><sup>21</sup>And Uzziah the king was a leper unto the day of his death, and dwelt in a separate house, being a leper; for he was cut off from the house of Jehovah: and Jotham his son was over the king's house, judging the people of the land. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Chr.26.22" data-parsed="2Chr_26_22_0_0" data-passage="iiChr 26.22" id="iiChr.26.22"/><sup>22</sup>Now the rest of the acts of Uzziah, first and last, did Isaiah the prophet, the son of Amoz, write. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Chr.26.23" data-parsed="2Chr_26_23_0_0" data-passage="iiChr 26.23" id="iiChr.26.23"/><sup>23</sup>So Uzziah slept with his fathers; and they buried him with his fathers in the field of burial which belonged to the kings; for they said, He is a leper: and Jotham his son reigned in his stead.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>