<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>2 Chronicles 17</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">2 Chronicles 17</span></div><div data-next="iiChr.18" data-prev="iiChr.16" data-progress="40.80%" data-shorttitle="" id="iiChr.17" title="2 Chronicles 17">
<h2 id="iiChr.17-p0.1">17</h2>
<p id="iiChr.17-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Chr.17.1" data-parsed="2Chr_17_1_0_0" data-passage="iiChr 17.1" id="iiChr.17.1"/><sup>1</sup>And Jehoshaphat his son reigned in his stead, and strengthened himself against Israel. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Chr.17.2" data-parsed="2Chr_17_2_0_0" data-passage="iiChr 17.2" id="iiChr.17.2"/><sup>2</sup>And he placed forces in all the fortified cities of Judah, and set garrisons in the land of Judah, and in the cities of Ephraim, which Asa his father had taken. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Chr.17.3" data-parsed="2Chr_17_3_0_0" data-passage="iiChr 17.3" id="iiChr.17.3"/><sup>3</sup>And Jehovah was with Jehoshaphat, because he walked in the first ways of his father David, and sought not unto the Baalim, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Chr.17.4" data-parsed="2Chr_17_4_0_0" data-passage="iiChr 17.4" id="iiChr.17.4"/><sup>4</sup>but sought to the God of his father, and walked in his commandments, and not after the doings of Israel.

<span data-osisref="Bible:2Chr.17.5" data-parsed="2Chr_17_5_0_0" data-passage="iiChr 17.5" id="iiChr.17.5"/><sup>5</sup>Therefore Jehovah established the kingdom in his hand; and all Judah brought to Jehoshaphat tribute; and he had riches and honor in abundance.

<span data-osisref="Bible:2Chr.17.6" data-parsed="2Chr_17_6_0_0" data-passage="iiChr 17.6" id="iiChr.17.6"/><sup>6</sup>And his heart was lifted up in the ways of Jehovah: and furthermore he took away the high places and the Asherim out of Judah. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Chr.17.7" data-parsed="2Chr_17_7_0_0" data-passage="iiChr 17.7" id="iiChr.17.7"/><sup>7</sup>Also in the third year of his reign he sent his princes, even Ben-hail, and Obadiah, and Zechariah, and Nethanel, and Micaiah, to teach in the cities of Judah;

<span data-osisref="Bible:2Chr.17.8" data-parsed="2Chr_17_8_0_0" data-passage="iiChr 17.8" id="iiChr.17.8"/><sup>8</sup>and with them the Levites, even Shemaiah, and Nethaniah, and Zebadiah,
and Asahel, and Shemiramoth, and Jehonathan, and Adonijah, and Tobijah, and Tob-adonijah, the Levites; and with them Elishama and Jehoram, the priests.

<span data-osisref="Bible:2Chr.17.9" data-parsed="2Chr_17_9_0_0" data-passage="iiChr 17.9" id="iiChr.17.9"/><sup>9</sup>And they taught in Judah, having the book of the law of Jehovah with them; and they went about throughout all the cities of Judah, and taught among the people. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Chr.17.10" data-parsed="2Chr_17_10_0_0" data-passage="iiChr 17.10" id="iiChr.17.10"/><sup>10</sup>And the fear of Jehovah fell upon all the kingdoms of the lands that were round about Judah, so that they made no war against Jehoshaphat. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Chr.17.11" data-parsed="2Chr_17_11_0_0" data-passage="iiChr 17.11" id="iiChr.17.11"/><sup>11</sup>And some of the Philistines brought Jehoshaphat presents,
and silver for tribute; the Arabians also brought him flocks, seven thousand and seven hundred rams, and seven thousand and seven hundred he-goats.

<span data-osisref="Bible:2Chr.17.12" data-parsed="2Chr_17_12_0_0" data-passage="iiChr 17.12" id="iiChr.17.12"/><sup>12</sup>And Jehoshaphat waxed great exceedingly; and he built in Judah castles and cities of store. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Chr.17.13" data-parsed="2Chr_17_13_0_0" data-passage="iiChr 17.13" id="iiChr.17.13"/><sup>13</sup>And he had many works in the cities of Judah; and men of war, mighty men of valor, in Jerusalem. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Chr.17.14" data-parsed="2Chr_17_14_0_0" data-passage="iiChr 17.14" id="iiChr.17.14"/><sup>14</sup>And this was the numbering of them according to their fathers' houses: Of Judah, the captains of thousands: Adnah the captain, and with him mighty men of valor three hundred thousand; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Chr.17.15" data-parsed="2Chr_17_15_0_0" data-passage="iiChr 17.15" id="iiChr.17.15"/><sup>15</sup>and next to him Jehohanan the captain, and with him two hundred and fourscore thousand; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Chr.17.16" data-parsed="2Chr_17_16_0_0" data-passage="iiChr 17.16" id="iiChr.17.16"/><sup>16</sup>and next to him Amasiah the son of Zichri, who willingly offered himself unto Jehovah; and with him two hundred thousand mighty men of valor. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Chr.17.17" data-parsed="2Chr_17_17_0_0" data-passage="iiChr 17.17" id="iiChr.17.17"/><sup>17</sup>And of Benjamin: Eliada a mighty man of valor, and with him two hundred thousand armed with bow and shield; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Chr.17.18" data-parsed="2Chr_17_18_0_0" data-passage="iiChr 17.18" id="iiChr.17.18"/><sup>18</sup>and next to him Jehozabad and with him a hundred and fourscore thousand ready prepared for war. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Chr.17.19" data-parsed="2Chr_17_19_0_0" data-passage="iiChr 17.19" id="iiChr.17.19"/><sup>19</sup>These were they that waited on the king, besides those whom the king put in the fortified cities throughout all Judah.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>