<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>2 Chronicles 36</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">2 Chronicles 36</span></div><div data-next="Ezra" data-prev="iiChr.35" data-progress="42.75%" data-shorttitle="" id="iiChr.36" title="2 Chronicles 36">
<h2 id="iiChr.36-p0.1">36</h2>
<p id="iiChr.36-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Chr.36.1" data-parsed="2Chr_36_1_0_0" data-passage="iiChr 36.1" id="iiChr.36.1"/><sup>1</sup>Then the people of the land took Jehoahaz the son of Josiah, and made him king in his father's stead in Jerusalem. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Chr.36.2" data-parsed="2Chr_36_2_0_0" data-passage="iiChr 36.2" id="iiChr.36.2"/><sup>2</sup>Joahaz was twenty and three years old when he began to reign; and he reigned three months in Jerusalem. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Chr.36.3" data-parsed="2Chr_36_3_0_0" data-passage="iiChr 36.3" id="iiChr.36.3"/><sup>3</sup>And the king of Egypt deposed him at Jerusalem, and fined the land a hundred talents of silver and a talent of gold. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Chr.36.4" data-parsed="2Chr_36_4_0_0" data-passage="iiChr 36.4" id="iiChr.36.4"/><sup>4</sup>And the king of Egypt made Eliakim his brother king over Judah and Jerusalem, and changed his name to Jehoiakim. And Neco took Joahaz his brother, and carried him to Egypt. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Chr.36.5" data-parsed="2Chr_36_5_0_0" data-passage="iiChr 36.5" id="iiChr.36.5"/><sup>5</sup>Jehoiakim was twenty and five years old when he began to reign;
and he reigned eleven years in Jerusalem: and he did that which was evil in the sight of Jehovah his God. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Chr.36.6" data-parsed="2Chr_36_6_0_0" data-passage="iiChr 36.6" id="iiChr.36.6"/><sup>6</sup>Against him came up Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon, and bound him in fetters, to carry him to Babylon.

<span data-osisref="Bible:2Chr.36.7" data-parsed="2Chr_36_7_0_0" data-passage="iiChr 36.7" id="iiChr.36.7"/><sup>7</sup>Nebuchadnezzar also carried of the vessels of the house of Jehovah to Babylon, and put them in his temple at Babylon. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Chr.36.8" data-parsed="2Chr_36_8_0_0" data-passage="iiChr 36.8" id="iiChr.36.8"/><sup>8</sup>Now the rest of the acts of Jehoiakim, and his abominations which he did, and that which was found in him, behold, they are written in the book of the kings of Israel and Judah:
and Jehoiachin his son reigned in his stead. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Chr.36.9" data-parsed="2Chr_36_9_0_0" data-passage="iiChr 36.9" id="iiChr.36.9"/><sup>9</sup>Jehoiachin was eight years old when he began to reign; and he reigned three months and ten days in Jerusalem: and he did that which was evil in the sight of Jehovah. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Chr.36.10" data-parsed="2Chr_36_10_0_0" data-passage="iiChr 36.10" id="iiChr.36.10"/><sup>10</sup>And at the return of the year king Nebuchadnezzar sent, and brought him to Babylon, with the goodly vessels of the house of Jehovah, and made Zedekiah his brother king over Judah and Jerusalem. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Chr.36.11" data-parsed="2Chr_36_11_0_0" data-passage="iiChr 36.11" id="iiChr.36.11"/><sup>11</sup>Zedekiah was twenty and one years old when he began to reign; and he reigned eleven years in Jerusalem:

<span data-osisref="Bible:2Chr.36.12" data-parsed="2Chr_36_12_0_0" data-passage="iiChr 36.12" id="iiChr.36.12"/><sup>12</sup>and he did that which was evil in the sight of Jehovah his God; he humbled not himself before Jeremiah the prophet <i>speaking</i> from the mouth of Jehovah. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Chr.36.13" data-parsed="2Chr_36_13_0_0" data-passage="iiChr 36.13" id="iiChr.36.13"/><sup>13</sup>And he also rebelled against king Nebuchadnezzar, who had made him swear by God: but he stiffened his neck, and hardened his heart against turning unto Jehovah, the God of Israel. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Chr.36.14" data-parsed="2Chr_36_14_0_0" data-passage="iiChr 36.14" id="iiChr.36.14"/><sup>14</sup>Moreover all the chiefs of the priests, and the people, trespassed very greatly after all the abominations of the nations; and they polluted the house of Jehovah which he had hallowed in Jerusalem. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Chr.36.15" data-parsed="2Chr_36_15_0_0" data-passage="iiChr 36.15" id="iiChr.36.15"/><sup>15</sup>And Jehovah, the God of their fathers, sent to them by his messengers, rising up early and sending, because he had compassion on his people, and on his dwelling-place: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Chr.36.16" data-parsed="2Chr_36_16_0_0" data-passage="iiChr 36.16" id="iiChr.36.16"/><sup>16</sup>but they mocked the messengers of God, and despised his words, and scoffed at his prophets,
until the wrath of Jehovah arose against his people, till there was no remedy. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Chr.36.17" data-parsed="2Chr_36_17_0_0" data-passage="iiChr 36.17" id="iiChr.36.17"/><sup>17</sup>Therefore he brought upon them the king of the Chaldeans, who slew their young men with the sword in the house of their sanctuary, and had no compassion upon young man or virgin, old man or hoary-headed: he gave them all into his hand. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Chr.36.18" data-parsed="2Chr_36_18_0_0" data-passage="iiChr 36.18" id="iiChr.36.18"/><sup>18</sup>And all the vessels of the house of God, great and small, and the treasures of the house of Jehovah, and the treasures of the king, and of his princes, all these he brought to Babylon. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Chr.36.19" data-parsed="2Chr_36_19_0_0" data-passage="iiChr 36.19" id="iiChr.36.19"/><sup>19</sup>And they burnt the house of God, and brake down the wall of Jerusalem, and burnt all the palaces thereof with fire, and destroyed all the goodly vessels thereof.

<span data-osisref="Bible:2Chr.36.20" data-parsed="2Chr_36_20_0_0" data-passage="iiChr 36.20" id="iiChr.36.20"/><sup>20</sup>And them that had escaped from the sword carried he away to Babylon;
and they were servants to him and his sons until the reign of the kingdom of Persia: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Chr.36.21" data-parsed="2Chr_36_21_0_0" data-passage="iiChr 36.21" id="iiChr.36.21"/><sup>21</sup>to fulfil the word of Jehovah by the mouth of Jeremiah, until the land had enjoyed its sabbaths: <i>for</i> as long as it lay desolate it kept sabbath, to fulfil threescore and ten years. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Chr.36.22" data-parsed="2Chr_36_22_0_0" data-passage="iiChr 36.22" id="iiChr.36.22"/><sup>22</sup>Now in the first year of Cyrus king of Persia, that the word of Jehovah by the mouth of Jeremiah might be accomplished, Jehovah stirred up the spirit of Cyrus king of Persia,
so that he made a proclamation throughout all his kingdom, and <i>put it</i>
also in writing, saying, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Chr.36.23" data-parsed="2Chr_36_23_0_0" data-passage="iiChr 36.23" id="iiChr.36.23"/><sup>23</sup>Thus saith Cyrus king of Persia, All the kingdoms of the earth hath Jehovah, the God of heaven, given me; and he hath charged me to build him a house in Jerusalem, which is in Judah. Whosoever there is among you of all his people, Jehovah his God be with him, and let him go up.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>