<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>2 Chronicles 14</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">2 Chronicles 14</span></div><div data-next="iiChr.15" data-prev="iiChr.13" data-progress="40.62%" data-shorttitle="" id="iiChr.14" title="2 Chronicles 14">
<h2 id="iiChr.14-p0.1">14</h2>
<p id="iiChr.14-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Chr.14.1" data-parsed="2Chr_14_1_0_0" data-passage="iiChr 14.1" id="iiChr.14.1"/><sup>1</sup>So Abijah slept with his fathers, and they buried him in the city of David; and Asa his son reigned in his stead. In his days the land was quiet ten years. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Chr.14.2" data-parsed="2Chr_14_2_0_0" data-passage="iiChr 14.2" id="iiChr.14.2"/><sup>2</sup>And Asa did that which was good and right in the eyes of Jehovah his God: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Chr.14.3" data-parsed="2Chr_14_3_0_0" data-passage="iiChr 14.3" id="iiChr.14.3"/><sup>3</sup>for he took away the foreign altars, and the high places, and brake down the pillars, and hewed down the Asherim, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Chr.14.4" data-parsed="2Chr_14_4_0_0" data-passage="iiChr 14.4" id="iiChr.14.4"/><sup>4</sup>and commanded Judah to seek Jehovah, the God of their fathers, and to do the law and the commandment. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Chr.14.5" data-parsed="2Chr_14_5_0_0" data-passage="iiChr 14.5" id="iiChr.14.5"/><sup>5</sup>Also he took away out of all the cities of Judah the high places and the sun-images: and the kingdom was quiet before him.

<span data-osisref="Bible:2Chr.14.6" data-parsed="2Chr_14_6_0_0" data-passage="iiChr 14.6" id="iiChr.14.6"/><sup>6</sup>And he built fortified cities in Judah; for the land was quiet, and he had no war in those years, because Jehovah had given him rest. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Chr.14.7" data-parsed="2Chr_14_7_0_0" data-passage="iiChr 14.7" id="iiChr.14.7"/><sup>7</sup>For he said unto Judah, Let us build these cities, and make about them walls, and towers, gates, and bars; the land is yet before us, because we have sought Jehovah our God; we have sought him, and he hath given us rest on every side.
So they built and prospered. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Chr.14.8" data-parsed="2Chr_14_8_0_0" data-passage="iiChr 14.8" id="iiChr.14.8"/><sup>8</sup>And Asa had an army that bare bucklers and spears, out of Judah three hundred thousand; and out of Benjamin, that bare shields and drew bows, two hundred and fourscore thousand: all these were mighty men of valor. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Chr.14.9" data-parsed="2Chr_14_9_0_0" data-passage="iiChr 14.9" id="iiChr.14.9"/><sup>9</sup>And there came out against them Zerah the Ethiopian with an army of a thousand thousand, and three hundred chariots; and he came unto Mareshah. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Chr.14.10" data-parsed="2Chr_14_10_0_0" data-passage="iiChr 14.10" id="iiChr.14.10"/><sup>10</sup>Then Asa went out to meet him, and they set the battle in array in the valley of Zephathah at Mareshah. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Chr.14.11" data-parsed="2Chr_14_11_0_0" data-passage="iiChr 14.11" id="iiChr.14.11"/><sup>11</sup>And Asa cried unto Jehovah his God, and said, Jehovah, there is none besides thee to help,
between the mighty and him that hath no strength: help us, O Jehovah our God;
for we rely on thee, and in thy name are we come against this multitude. O Jehovah, thou art our God; let not man prevail against thee. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Chr.14.12" data-parsed="2Chr_14_12_0_0" data-passage="iiChr 14.12" id="iiChr.14.12"/><sup>12</sup>So Jehovah smote the Ethiopians before Asa, and before Judah; and the Ethiopians fled.

<span data-osisref="Bible:2Chr.14.13" data-parsed="2Chr_14_13_0_0" data-passage="iiChr 14.13" id="iiChr.14.13"/><sup>13</sup>And Asa and the people that were with him pursued them unto Gerar: and there fell of the Ethiopians so many that they could not recover themselves;
for they were destroyed before Jehovah, and before his host; and they carried away very much booty. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Chr.14.14" data-parsed="2Chr_14_14_0_0" data-passage="iiChr 14.14" id="iiChr.14.14"/><sup>14</sup>And they smote all the cities round about Gerar;
for the fear of Jehovah came upon them: and they despoiled all the cities;
for there was much spoil in them. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Chr.14.15" data-parsed="2Chr_14_15_0_0" data-passage="iiChr 14.15" id="iiChr.14.15"/><sup>15</sup>They smote also the tents of cattle,
and carried away sheep in abundance, and camels, and returned to Jerusalem.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>