<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>2 Chronicles 13</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">2 Chronicles 13</span></div><div data-next="iiChr.14" data-prev="iiChr.12" data-progress="40.54%" data-shorttitle="" id="iiChr.13" title="2 Chronicles 13">
<h2 id="iiChr.13-p0.1">13</h2>
<p id="iiChr.13-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Chr.13.1" data-parsed="2Chr_13_1_0_0" data-passage="iiChr 13.1" id="iiChr.13.1"/><sup>1</sup>In the eighteenth year of king Jeroboam began Abijah to reign over Judah. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Chr.13.2" data-parsed="2Chr_13_2_0_0" data-passage="iiChr 13.2" id="iiChr.13.2"/><sup>2</sup>Three years reigned he in Jerusalem: and his mother's name was Micaiah the daughter of Uriel of Gibeah. And there was war between Abijah and Jeroboam. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Chr.13.3" data-parsed="2Chr_13_3_0_0" data-passage="iiChr 13.3" id="iiChr.13.3"/><sup>3</sup>And Abijah joined battle with an army of valiant men of war,
even four hundred thousand chosen men: and Jeroboam set the battle in array against him with eight hundred thousand chosen men, who were mighty men of valor. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Chr.13.4" data-parsed="2Chr_13_4_0_0" data-passage="iiChr 13.4" id="iiChr.13.4"/><sup>4</sup>And Abijah stood up upon mount Zemaraim, which is in the hill-country of Ephraim, and said, Hear me, O Jeroboam and all Israel:

<span data-osisref="Bible:2Chr.13.5" data-parsed="2Chr_13_5_0_0" data-passage="iiChr 13.5" id="iiChr.13.5"/><sup>5</sup>Ought ye not to know that Jehovah, the God of Israel, gave the kingdom over Israel to David for ever, even to him and to his sons by a covenant of salt? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Chr.13.6" data-parsed="2Chr_13_6_0_0" data-passage="iiChr 13.6" id="iiChr.13.6"/><sup>6</sup>Yet Jeroboam the son of Nebat, the servant of Solomon the son of David, rose up, and rebelled against his lord. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Chr.13.7" data-parsed="2Chr_13_7_0_0" data-passage="iiChr 13.7" id="iiChr.13.7"/><sup>7</sup>And there were gathered unto him worthless men, base fellows, that strengthened themselves against Rehoboam the son of Solomon, when Rehoboam was young and tender-hearted, and could not withstand them. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Chr.13.8" data-parsed="2Chr_13_8_0_0" data-passage="iiChr 13.8" id="iiChr.13.8"/><sup>8</sup>And now ye think to withstand the kingdom of Jehovah in the hand of the sons of David; and ye are a great multitude, and there are with you the golden calves which Jeroboam made you for gods.

<span data-osisref="Bible:2Chr.13.9" data-parsed="2Chr_13_9_0_0" data-passage="iiChr 13.9" id="iiChr.13.9"/><sup>9</sup>Have ye not driven out the priests of Jehovah, the sons of Aaron, and the Levites, and made you priests after the manner of the peoples of <i>other</i> lands? so that whosoever cometh to consecrate himself with a young bullock and seven rams, the same may be a priest of <i>them that are</i> no gods. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Chr.13.10" data-parsed="2Chr_13_10_0_0" data-passage="iiChr 13.10" id="iiChr.13.10"/><sup>10</sup>But as for us, Jehovah is our God, and we have not forsaken him; and <i>we have</i> priests ministering unto Jehovah, the sons of Aaron, and the Levites in their work: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Chr.13.11" data-parsed="2Chr_13_11_0_0" data-passage="iiChr 13.11" id="iiChr.13.11"/><sup>11</sup>and they burn unto Jehovah every morning and every evening burnt-offerings and sweet incense: the showbread also <i>set they</i> in order upon the pure table; and the candlestick of gold with the lamps thereof, to burn every evening: for we keep the charge of Jehovah our God; but ye have forsaken him. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Chr.13.12" data-parsed="2Chr_13_12_0_0" data-passage="iiChr 13.12" id="iiChr.13.12"/><sup>12</sup>And,
behold, God is with us at our head, and his priests with the trumpets of alarm to sound an alarm against you. O children of Israel, fight ye not against Jehovah, the God of your fathers; for ye shall not prosper. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Chr.13.13" data-parsed="2Chr_13_13_0_0" data-passage="iiChr 13.13" id="iiChr.13.13"/><sup>13</sup>But Jeroboam caused an ambushment to come about behind them: so they were before Judah, and the ambushment was behind them. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Chr.13.14" data-parsed="2Chr_13_14_0_0" data-passage="iiChr 13.14" id="iiChr.13.14"/><sup>14</sup>And when Judah looked back,
behold, the battle was before and behind them; and they cried unto Jehovah,
and the priests sounded with the trumpets. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Chr.13.15" data-parsed="2Chr_13_15_0_0" data-passage="iiChr 13.15" id="iiChr.13.15"/><sup>15</sup>Then the men of Judah gave a shout: and as the men of Judah shouted, it came to pass, that God smote Jeroboam and all Israel before Abijah and Judah. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Chr.13.16" data-parsed="2Chr_13_16_0_0" data-passage="iiChr 13.16" id="iiChr.13.16"/><sup>16</sup>And the children of Israel fled before Judah; and God delivered them into their hand. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Chr.13.17" data-parsed="2Chr_13_17_0_0" data-passage="iiChr 13.17" id="iiChr.13.17"/><sup>17</sup>And Abijah and his people slew them with a great slaughter: so there fell down slain of Israel five hundred thousand chosen men. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Chr.13.18" data-parsed="2Chr_13_18_0_0" data-passage="iiChr 13.18" id="iiChr.13.18"/><sup>18</sup>Thus the children of Israel were brought under at that time, and the children of Judah prevailed,
because they relied upon Jehovah, the God of their fathers. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Chr.13.19" data-parsed="2Chr_13_19_0_0" data-passage="iiChr 13.19" id="iiChr.13.19"/><sup>19</sup>And Abijah pursued after Jeroboam, and took cities from him, Beth-el with the towns thereof, and Jeshanah with the towns thereof, and Ephron with the towns thereof. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Chr.13.20" data-parsed="2Chr_13_20_0_0" data-passage="iiChr 13.20" id="iiChr.13.20"/><sup>20</sup>Neither did Jeroboam recover strength again in the days of Abijah: and Jehovah smote him, and he died. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Chr.13.21" data-parsed="2Chr_13_21_0_0" data-passage="iiChr 13.21" id="iiChr.13.21"/><sup>21</sup>But Abijah waxed mighty,
and took unto himself fourteen wives, and begat twenty and two sons, and sixteen daughters. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Chr.13.22" data-parsed="2Chr_13_22_0_0" data-passage="iiChr 13.22" id="iiChr.13.22"/><sup>22</sup>And the rest of the acts of Abijah, and his ways,
and his sayings, are written in the commentary of the prophet Iddo.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>