<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>2 Chronicles 27</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">2 Chronicles 27</span></div><div data-next="iiChr.28" data-prev="iiChr.26" data-progress="41.74%" data-shorttitle="" id="iiChr.27" title="2 Chronicles 27">
<h2 id="iiChr.27-p0.1">27</h2>
<p id="iiChr.27-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Chr.27.1" data-parsed="2Chr_27_1_0_0" data-passage="iiChr 27.1" id="iiChr.27.1"/><sup>1</sup>Jotham was twenty and five years old when he began to reign; and he reigned sixteen years in Jerusalem: and his mother's name was Jerushah the daughter of Zadok. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Chr.27.2" data-parsed="2Chr_27_2_0_0" data-passage="iiChr 27.2" id="iiChr.27.2"/><sup>2</sup>And he did that which was right in the eyes of Jehovah, according to all that his father Uzziah had done: howbeit he entered not into the temple of Jehovah. And the people did yet corruptly. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Chr.27.3" data-parsed="2Chr_27_3_0_0" data-passage="iiChr 27.3" id="iiChr.27.3"/><sup>3</sup>He built the upper gate of the house of Jehovah, and on the wall of Ophel he built much. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Chr.27.4" data-parsed="2Chr_27_4_0_0" data-passage="iiChr 27.4" id="iiChr.27.4"/><sup>4</sup>Moreover he built cities in the hill-country of Judah, and in the forests he built castles and towers. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Chr.27.5" data-parsed="2Chr_27_5_0_0" data-passage="iiChr 27.5" id="iiChr.27.5"/><sup>5</sup>He fought also with the king of the children of Ammon, and prevailed against them. And the children of Ammon gave him the same year a hundred talents of silver, and ten thousand measures of wheat, and ten thousand of barley. So much did the children of Ammon render unto him, in the second year also, and in the third. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Chr.27.6" data-parsed="2Chr_27_6_0_0" data-passage="iiChr 27.6" id="iiChr.27.6"/><sup>6</sup>So Jotham became mighty, because he ordered his ways before Jehovah his God.

<span data-osisref="Bible:2Chr.27.7" data-parsed="2Chr_27_7_0_0" data-passage="iiChr 27.7" id="iiChr.27.7"/><sup>7</sup>Now the rest of the acts of Jotham, and all his wars, and his ways,
behold, they are written in the book of the kings of Israel and Judah.

<span data-osisref="Bible:2Chr.27.8" data-parsed="2Chr_27_8_0_0" data-passage="iiChr 27.8" id="iiChr.27.8"/><sup>8</sup>He was five and twenty years old when he began to reign, and reigned sixteen years in Jerusalem. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Chr.27.9" data-parsed="2Chr_27_9_0_0" data-passage="iiChr 27.9" id="iiChr.27.9"/><sup>9</sup>And Jotham slept with his fathers, and they buried him in the city of David: and Ahaz his son reigned in his stead.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>