<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>2 Corinthians 3</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">2 Corinthians 3</span></div><div data-next="iiCor.4" data-prev="iiCor.2" data-progress="93.27%" data-shorttitle="" id="iiCor.3" title="2 Corinthians 3">
<h2 id="iiCor.3-p0.1">3</h2>
<p id="iiCor.3-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Cor.3.1" data-parsed="2Cor_3_1_0_0" data-passage="iiCor 3.1" id="iiCor.3.1"/><sup>1</sup>Are we beginning again to commend ourselves? or need we, as do some, epistles of commendation to you or from you? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Cor.3.2" data-parsed="2Cor_3_2_0_0" data-passage="iiCor 3.2" id="iiCor.3.2"/><sup>2</sup>Ye are our epistle,
written in our hearts, known and read of all men; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Cor.3.3" data-parsed="2Cor_3_3_0_0" data-passage="iiCor 3.3" id="iiCor.3.3"/><sup>3</sup>being made manifest that ye are an epistle of Christ, ministered by us, written not with ink, but with the Spirit of the living God; not in tables of stone, but in tables <i>that are</i> hearts of flesh. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Cor.3.4" data-parsed="2Cor_3_4_0_0" data-passage="iiCor 3.4" id="iiCor.3.4"/><sup>4</sup>And such confidence have we through Christ to God-ward: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Cor.3.5" data-parsed="2Cor_3_5_0_0" data-passage="iiCor 3.5" id="iiCor.3.5"/><sup>5</sup>not that we are sufficient of ourselves, to account anything as from ourselves; but our sufficiency is from God; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Cor.3.6" data-parsed="2Cor_3_6_0_0" data-passage="iiCor 3.6" id="iiCor.3.6"/><sup>6</sup>who also made us sufficient as ministers of a new covenant; not of the letter, but of the spirit: for the letter killeth, but the spirit giveth life. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Cor.3.7" data-parsed="2Cor_3_7_0_0" data-passage="iiCor 3.7" id="iiCor.3.7"/><sup>7</sup>But if the ministration of death, written, <i>and</i> engraven on stones, came with glory, so that the children of Israel could not look stedfastly upon the face of Moses for the glory of his face; which <i>glory</i> was passing away:

<span data-osisref="Bible:2Cor.3.8" data-parsed="2Cor_3_8_0_0" data-passage="iiCor 3.8" id="iiCor.3.8"/><sup>8</sup>how shall not rather the ministration of the spirit be with glory?

<span data-osisref="Bible:2Cor.3.9" data-parsed="2Cor_3_9_0_0" data-passage="iiCor 3.9" id="iiCor.3.9"/><sup>9</sup>For if the ministration of condemnation hath glory, much rather doth the ministration of righteousness exceed in glory. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Cor.3.10" data-parsed="2Cor_3_10_0_0" data-passage="iiCor 3.10" id="iiCor.3.10"/><sup>10</sup>For verily that which hath been made glorious hath not been made glorious in this respect, by reason of the glory that surpasseth. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Cor.3.11" data-parsed="2Cor_3_11_0_0" data-passage="iiCor 3.11" id="iiCor.3.11"/><sup>11</sup>For if that which passeth away <i>was</i> with glory, much more that which remaineth <i>is</i> in glory.

<span data-osisref="Bible:2Cor.3.12" data-parsed="2Cor_3_12_0_0" data-passage="iiCor 3.12" id="iiCor.3.12"/><sup>12</sup>Having therefore such a hope, we use great boldness of speech,

<span data-osisref="Bible:2Cor.3.13" data-parsed="2Cor_3_13_0_0" data-passage="iiCor 3.13" id="iiCor.3.13"/><sup>13</sup>and <i>are</i> not as Moses, <i>who</i> put a veil upon his face,
that the children of Israel should not look stedfastly on the end of that which was passing away: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Cor.3.14" data-parsed="2Cor_3_14_0_0" data-passage="iiCor 3.14" id="iiCor.3.14"/><sup>14</sup>but their minds were hardened: for until this very day at the reading of the old covenant the same veil remaineth, it not being revealed <i>to them</i> that it is done away in Christ. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Cor.3.15" data-parsed="2Cor_3_15_0_0" data-passage="iiCor 3.15" id="iiCor.3.15"/><sup>15</sup>But unto this day, whensoever Moses is read, a veil lieth upon their heart. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Cor.3.16" data-parsed="2Cor_3_16_0_0" data-passage="iiCor 3.16" id="iiCor.3.16"/><sup>16</sup>But whensoever it shall turn to the Lord, the veil is taken away. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Cor.3.17" data-parsed="2Cor_3_17_0_0" data-passage="iiCor 3.17" id="iiCor.3.17"/><sup>17</sup>Now the Lord is the Spirit: and where the Spirit of the Lord is, <i>there</i> is liberty. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Cor.3.18" data-parsed="2Cor_3_18_0_0" data-passage="iiCor 3.18" id="iiCor.3.18"/><sup>18</sup>But we all, with unveiled face beholding as in a mirror the glory of the Lord, are transformed into the same image from glory to glory,
even as from the Lord the Spirit.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>