<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>2 Corinthians 9</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">2 Corinthians 9</span></div><div data-next="iiCor.10" data-prev="iiCor.8" data-progress="93.62%" data-shorttitle="" id="iiCor.9" title="2 Corinthians 9">
<h2 id="iiCor.9-p0.1">9</h2>
<p id="iiCor.9-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Cor.9.1" data-parsed="2Cor_9_1_0_0" data-passage="iiCor 9.1" id="iiCor.9.1"/><sup>1</sup>For as touching the ministering to the saints, it is superfluous for me to write to you: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Cor.9.2" data-parsed="2Cor_9_2_0_0" data-passage="iiCor 9.2" id="iiCor.9.2"/><sup>2</sup>for I know your readiness, of which I glory on your behalf to them of Macedonia, that Achaia hath been prepared for a year past; and your zeal hath stirred up very many of them. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Cor.9.3" data-parsed="2Cor_9_3_0_0" data-passage="iiCor 9.3" id="iiCor.9.3"/><sup>3</sup>But I have sent the brethren, that our glorying on your behalf may not be made void in this respect; that, even as I said, ye may be prepared: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Cor.9.4" data-parsed="2Cor_9_4_0_0" data-passage="iiCor 9.4" id="iiCor.9.4"/><sup>4</sup>lest by any means, if there come with me any of Macedonia and find you unprepared, we (that we say not, ye) should be put to shame in this confidence. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Cor.9.5" data-parsed="2Cor_9_5_0_0" data-passage="iiCor 9.5" id="iiCor.9.5"/><sup>5</sup>I thought it necessary therefore to entreat the brethren, that they would go before unto you, and make up beforehand your aforepromised bounty, that the same might be ready as a matter of bounty, and not of extortion. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Cor.9.6" data-parsed="2Cor_9_6_0_0" data-passage="iiCor 9.6" id="iiCor.9.6"/><sup>6</sup>But this <i>I say,</i> He that soweth sparingly shall reap also sparingly; and he that soweth bountifully shall reap also bountifully. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Cor.9.7" data-parsed="2Cor_9_7_0_0" data-passage="iiCor 9.7" id="iiCor.9.7"/><sup>7</sup><i>Let</i> each man <i>do</i> according as he hath purposed in his heart: not grudgingly, or of necessity: for God loveth a cheerful giver. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Cor.9.8" data-parsed="2Cor_9_8_0_0" data-passage="iiCor 9.8" id="iiCor.9.8"/><sup>8</sup>And God is able to make all grace abound unto you; that ye, having always all sufficiency in everything,
may abound unto every good work: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Cor.9.9" data-parsed="2Cor_9_9_0_0" data-passage="iiCor 9.9" id="iiCor.9.9"/><sup>9</sup>as it is written,</p>
<p class="poetry" id="iiCor.9-p2">
He hath scattered abroad, he hath given to the poor;</p>
<p class="poetry" id="iiCor.9-p3">
His righteousness abideth for ever.</p>
<p id="iiCor.9-p4">
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Cor.9.10" data-parsed="2Cor_9_10_0_0" data-passage="iiCor 9.10" id="iiCor.9.10"/><sup>10</sup>And he that supplieth seed to the sower and bread for food, shall supply and multiply your seed for sowing, and increase the fruits of your righteousness: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Cor.9.11" data-parsed="2Cor_9_11_0_0" data-passage="iiCor 9.11" id="iiCor.9.11"/><sup>11</sup>ye being enriched in everything unto all liberality,
which worketh through us thanksgiving to God. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Cor.9.12" data-parsed="2Cor_9_12_0_0" data-passage="iiCor 9.12" id="iiCor.9.12"/><sup>12</sup>For the ministration of this service not only filleth up the measure of the wants of the saints, but aboundeth also through many thanksgivings unto God; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Cor.9.13" data-parsed="2Cor_9_13_0_0" data-passage="iiCor 9.13" id="iiCor.9.13"/><sup>13</sup>seeing that through the proving <i>of you</i> by this ministration they glorify God for the obedience of your confession unto the gospel of Christ, and for the liberality of <i>your</i> contribution unto them and unto all; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Cor.9.14" data-parsed="2Cor_9_14_0_0" data-passage="iiCor 9.14" id="iiCor.9.14"/><sup>14</sup>while they themselves also, with supplication on your behalf, long after you by reason of the exceeding grace of God in you. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Cor.9.15" data-parsed="2Cor_9_15_0_0" data-passage="iiCor 9.15" id="iiCor.9.15"/><sup>15</sup>Thanks be to God for his unspeakable gift.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>