<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>2 Corinthians 11</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">2 Corinthians 11</span></div><div data-next="iiCor.12" data-prev="iiCor.10" data-progress="93.72%" data-shorttitle="" id="iiCor.11" title="2 Corinthians 11">
<h2 id="iiCor.11-p0.1">11</h2>
<p id="iiCor.11-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Cor.11.1" data-parsed="2Cor_11_1_0_0" data-passage="iiCor 11.1" id="iiCor.11.1"/><sup>1</sup>Would that ye could bear with me in a little foolishness: but indeed ye do bear with me. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Cor.11.2" data-parsed="2Cor_11_2_0_0" data-passage="iiCor 11.2" id="iiCor.11.2"/><sup>2</sup>For I am jealous over you with a godly jealousy: for I espoused you to one husband, that I might present you <i>as</i> a pure virgin to Christ. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Cor.11.3" data-parsed="2Cor_11_3_0_0" data-passage="iiCor 11.3" id="iiCor.11.3"/><sup>3</sup>But I fear, lest by any means, as the serpent beguiled Eve in his craftiness, your minds should be corrupted from the simplicity and the purity that is toward Christ. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Cor.11.4" data-parsed="2Cor_11_4_0_0" data-passage="iiCor 11.4" id="iiCor.11.4"/><sup>4</sup>For if he that cometh preacheth another Jesus, whom we did not preach, or <i>if</i> ye receive a different spirit, which ye did not receive, or a different gospel,
which ye did not accept, ye do well to bear with <i>him</i>. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Cor.11.5" data-parsed="2Cor_11_5_0_0" data-passage="iiCor 11.5" id="iiCor.11.5"/><sup>5</sup>For I reckon that I am not a whit behind the very chiefest apostles. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Cor.11.6" data-parsed="2Cor_11_6_0_0" data-passage="iiCor 11.6" id="iiCor.11.6"/><sup>6</sup>But though <i>I be</i> rude in speech, yet <i>am I</i> not in knowledge; nay,
in every way have we made <i>this</i> manifest unto you in all things.

<span data-osisref="Bible:2Cor.11.7" data-parsed="2Cor_11_7_0_0" data-passage="iiCor 11.7" id="iiCor.11.7"/><sup>7</sup>Or did I commit a sin in abasing myself that ye might be exalted,
because I preached to you the gospel of God for nought? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Cor.11.8" data-parsed="2Cor_11_8_0_0" data-passage="iiCor 11.8" id="iiCor.11.8"/><sup>8</sup>I robbed other churches, taking wages <i>of them</i> that I might minister unto you;

<span data-osisref="Bible:2Cor.11.9" data-parsed="2Cor_11_9_0_0" data-passage="iiCor 11.9" id="iiCor.11.9"/><sup>9</sup>and when I was present with you and was in want, I was not a burden on any man; for the brethren, when they came from Macedonia, supplied the measure of my want; and in everything I kept myself from being burdensome unto you, and <i>so</i> will I keep <i>myself</i>. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Cor.11.10" data-parsed="2Cor_11_10_0_0" data-passage="iiCor 11.10" id="iiCor.11.10"/><sup>10</sup>As the truth of Christ is in me, no man shall stop me of this glorying in the regions of Achaia. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Cor.11.11" data-parsed="2Cor_11_11_0_0" data-passage="iiCor 11.11" id="iiCor.11.11"/><sup>11</sup>Wherefore? because I love you not? God knoweth. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Cor.11.12" data-parsed="2Cor_11_12_0_0" data-passage="iiCor 11.12" id="iiCor.11.12"/><sup>12</sup>But what I do, that I will do, that I may cut off occasion from them that desire an occasion; that wherein they glory, they may be found even as we. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Cor.11.13" data-parsed="2Cor_11_13_0_0" data-passage="iiCor 11.13" id="iiCor.11.13"/><sup>13</sup>For such men are false apostles, deceitful workers, fashioning themselves into apostles of Christ. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Cor.11.14" data-parsed="2Cor_11_14_0_0" data-passage="iiCor 11.14" id="iiCor.11.14"/><sup>14</sup>And no marvel; for even Satan fashioneth himself into an angel of light. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Cor.11.15" data-parsed="2Cor_11_15_0_0" data-passage="iiCor 11.15" id="iiCor.11.15"/><sup>15</sup>It is no great thing therefore if his ministers also fashion themselves as ministers of righteousness, whose end shall be according to their works. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Cor.11.16" data-parsed="2Cor_11_16_0_0" data-passage="iiCor 11.16" id="iiCor.11.16"/><sup>16</sup>I say again, let no man think me foolish; but if <i>ye do</i>, yet as foolish receive me, that I also may glory a little.

<span data-osisref="Bible:2Cor.11.17" data-parsed="2Cor_11_17_0_0" data-passage="iiCor 11.17" id="iiCor.11.17"/><sup>17</sup>That which I speak, I speak not after the Lord, but as in foolishness,
in this confidence of glorying. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Cor.11.18" data-parsed="2Cor_11_18_0_0" data-passage="iiCor 11.18" id="iiCor.11.18"/><sup>18</sup>Seeing that many glory after the flesh,
I will glory also. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Cor.11.19" data-parsed="2Cor_11_19_0_0" data-passage="iiCor 11.19" id="iiCor.11.19"/><sup>19</sup>For ye bear with the foolish gladly, being wise <i>yourselves</i>. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Cor.11.20" data-parsed="2Cor_11_20_0_0" data-passage="iiCor 11.20" id="iiCor.11.20"/><sup>20</sup>For ye bear with a man, if he bringeth you into bondage, if he devoureth you, if he taketh you <i>captive</i>, if he exalteth himself, if he smiteth you on the face. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Cor.11.21" data-parsed="2Cor_11_21_0_0" data-passage="iiCor 11.21" id="iiCor.11.21"/><sup>21</sup>I speak by way of disparagement, as though we had been weak. Yet whereinsoever any is bold (I speak in foolishness), I am bold also. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Cor.11.22" data-parsed="2Cor_11_22_0_0" data-passage="iiCor 11.22" id="iiCor.11.22"/><sup>22</sup>Are they Hebrews? so am I. Are they Israelites? so am I. Are they the seed of Abraham? so am I. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Cor.11.23" data-parsed="2Cor_11_23_0_0" data-passage="iiCor 11.23" id="iiCor.11.23"/><sup>23</sup>Are they ministers of Christ? (I speak as one beside himself) I more; in labors more abundantly, in prisons more abundantly, in stripes above measure, in deaths oft. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Cor.11.24" data-parsed="2Cor_11_24_0_0" data-passage="iiCor 11.24" id="iiCor.11.24"/><sup>24</sup>Of the Jews five times received I forty <i>stripes</i>
save one. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Cor.11.25" data-parsed="2Cor_11_25_0_0" data-passage="iiCor 11.25" id="iiCor.11.25"/><sup>25</sup>Thrice was I beaten with rods, once was I stoned, thrice I suffered shipwreck, a night and a day have I been in the deep;

<span data-osisref="Bible:2Cor.11.26" data-parsed="2Cor_11_26_0_0" data-passage="iiCor 11.26" id="iiCor.11.26"/><sup>26</sup><i>in</i> journeyings often, <i>in</i> perils of rivers, <i>in</i>
perils of robbers, <i>in</i> perils from <i>my</i> countrymen, <i>in</i>
perils from the Gentiles, <i>in</i> perils in the city, <i>in</i> perils in the wilderness, <i>in</i> perils in the sea, <i>in</i> perils among false brethren; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Cor.11.27" data-parsed="2Cor_11_27_0_0" data-passage="iiCor 11.27" id="iiCor.11.27"/><sup>27</sup><i>in</i> labor and travail, in watchings often, in hunger and thirst, in fastings often, in cold and nakedness. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Cor.11.28" data-parsed="2Cor_11_28_0_0" data-passage="iiCor 11.28" id="iiCor.11.28"/><sup>28</sup>Besides those things that are without, there is that which presseth upon me daily, anxiety for all the churches. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Cor.11.29" data-parsed="2Cor_11_29_0_0" data-passage="iiCor 11.29" id="iiCor.11.29"/><sup>29</sup>Who is weak, and I am not weak? who is caused to stumble, and I burn not? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Cor.11.30" data-parsed="2Cor_11_30_0_0" data-passage="iiCor 11.30" id="iiCor.11.30"/><sup>30</sup>If I must needs glory, I will glory of the things that concern my weakness. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Cor.11.31" data-parsed="2Cor_11_31_0_0" data-passage="iiCor 11.31" id="iiCor.11.31"/><sup>31</sup>The God and Father of the Lord Jesus,
he who is blessed for evermore knoweth that I lie not. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Cor.11.32" data-parsed="2Cor_11_32_0_0" data-passage="iiCor 11.32" id="iiCor.11.32"/><sup>32</sup>In Damascus the governor under Aretas the king guarded the city of the Damascenes in order to take me: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Cor.11.33" data-parsed="2Cor_11_33_0_0" data-passage="iiCor 11.33" id="iiCor.11.33"/><sup>33</sup>and through a window was I let down in a basket by the wall,
and escaped his hands.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>