<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>2 Corinthians 5</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">2 Corinthians 5</span></div><div data-next="iiCor.6" data-prev="iiCor.4" data-progress="93.38%" data-shorttitle="" id="iiCor.5" title="2 Corinthians 5">
<h2 id="iiCor.5-p0.1">5</h2>
<p id="iiCor.5-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Cor.5.1" data-parsed="2Cor_5_1_0_0" data-passage="iiCor 5.1" id="iiCor.5.1"/><sup>1</sup>For we know that if the earthly house of our tabernacle be dissolved, we have a building from God, a house not made with hands, eternal, in the heavens. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Cor.5.2" data-parsed="2Cor_5_2_0_0" data-passage="iiCor 5.2" id="iiCor.5.2"/><sup>2</sup>For verily in this we groan, longing to be clothed upon with our habitation which is from heaven: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Cor.5.3" data-parsed="2Cor_5_3_0_0" data-passage="iiCor 5.3" id="iiCor.5.3"/><sup>3</sup>if so be that being clothed we shall not be found naked. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Cor.5.4" data-parsed="2Cor_5_4_0_0" data-passage="iiCor 5.4" id="iiCor.5.4"/><sup>4</sup>For indeed we that are in this tabernacle do groan, being burdened; not for that we would be unclothed, but that we would be clothed upon, that what is mortal may be swallowed up of life. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Cor.5.5" data-parsed="2Cor_5_5_0_0" data-passage="iiCor 5.5" id="iiCor.5.5"/><sup>5</sup>Now he that wrought us for this very thing is God, who gave unto us the earnest of the Spirit. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Cor.5.6" data-parsed="2Cor_5_6_0_0" data-passage="iiCor 5.6" id="iiCor.5.6"/><sup>6</sup>Being therefore always of good courage, and knowing that,
whilst we are at home in the body, we are absent from the Lord 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Cor.5.7" data-parsed="2Cor_5_7_0_0" data-passage="iiCor 5.7" id="iiCor.5.7"/><sup>7</sup>(for we walk by faith, not by sight); 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Cor.5.8" data-parsed="2Cor_5_8_0_0" data-passage="iiCor 5.8" id="iiCor.5.8"/><sup>8</sup>we are of good courage, I say, and are willing rather to be absent from the body, and to be at home with the Lord.

<span data-osisref="Bible:2Cor.5.9" data-parsed="2Cor_5_9_0_0" data-passage="iiCor 5.9" id="iiCor.5.9"/><sup>9</sup>Wherefore also we make it our aim, whether at home or absent, to be well-pleasing unto him. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Cor.5.10" data-parsed="2Cor_5_10_0_0" data-passage="iiCor 5.10" id="iiCor.5.10"/><sup>10</sup>For we must all be made manifest before the judgment-seat of Christ; that each one may receive the things <i>done</i> in the body, according to what he hath done, whether <i>it be</i> good or bad.

<span data-osisref="Bible:2Cor.5.11" data-parsed="2Cor_5_11_0_0" data-passage="iiCor 5.11" id="iiCor.5.11"/><sup>11</sup>Knowing therefore the fear of the Lord, we persuade men, but we are made manifest unto God; and I hope that we are made manifest also in your consciences. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Cor.5.12" data-parsed="2Cor_5_12_0_0" data-passage="iiCor 5.12" id="iiCor.5.12"/><sup>12</sup>We are not again commending ourselves unto you, but <i>speak</i> as giving you occasion of glorying on our behalf, that ye may have wherewith to answer them that glory in appearance, and not in heart.

<span data-osisref="Bible:2Cor.5.13" data-parsed="2Cor_5_13_0_0" data-passage="iiCor 5.13" id="iiCor.5.13"/><sup>13</sup>For whether we are beside ourselves, it is unto God; or whether we are of sober mind, it is unto you. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Cor.5.14" data-parsed="2Cor_5_14_0_0" data-passage="iiCor 5.14" id="iiCor.5.14"/><sup>14</sup>For the love of Christ constraineth us;
because we thus judge, that one died for all, therefore all died; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Cor.5.15" data-parsed="2Cor_5_15_0_0" data-passage="iiCor 5.15" id="iiCor.5.15"/><sup>15</sup>and he died for all, that they that live should no longer live unto themselves,
but unto him who for their sakes died and rose again. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Cor.5.16" data-parsed="2Cor_5_16_0_0" data-passage="iiCor 5.16" id="iiCor.5.16"/><sup>16</sup>Wherefore we henceforth know no man after the flesh: even though we have known Christ after the flesh, yet now we know <i>him so</i> no more. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Cor.5.17" data-parsed="2Cor_5_17_0_0" data-passage="iiCor 5.17" id="iiCor.5.17"/><sup>17</sup>Wherefore if any man is in Christ, <i>he is</i> a new creature: the old things are passed away; behold, they are become new. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Cor.5.18" data-parsed="2Cor_5_18_0_0" data-passage="iiCor 5.18" id="iiCor.5.18"/><sup>18</sup>But all things are of God, who reconciled us to himself through Christ, and gave unto us the ministry of reconciliation; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Cor.5.19" data-parsed="2Cor_5_19_0_0" data-passage="iiCor 5.19" id="iiCor.5.19"/><sup>19</sup>to wit, that God was in Christ reconciling the world unto himself, not reckoning unto them their trespasses, and having committed unto us the word of reconciliation. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Cor.5.20" data-parsed="2Cor_5_20_0_0" data-passage="iiCor 5.20" id="iiCor.5.20"/><sup>20</sup>We are ambassadors therefore on behalf of Christ, as though God were entreating by us: we beseech <i>you</i>
on behalf of Christ, be ye reconciled to God. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Cor.5.21" data-parsed="2Cor_5_21_0_0" data-passage="iiCor 5.21" id="iiCor.5.21"/><sup>21</sup>Him who knew no sin he made <i>to be</i> sin on our behalf; that we might become the righteousness of God in him.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>