<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>2 Corinthians 12</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">2 Corinthians 12</span></div><div data-next="iiCor.13" data-prev="iiCor.11" data-progress="93.82%" data-shorttitle="" id="iiCor.12" title="2 Corinthians 12">
<h2 id="iiCor.12-p0.1">12</h2>
<p id="iiCor.12-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Cor.12.1" data-parsed="2Cor_12_1_0_0" data-passage="iiCor 12.1" id="iiCor.12.1"/><sup>1</sup>I must needs glory, though it is not expedient; but I will come to visions and revelations of the Lord. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Cor.12.2" data-parsed="2Cor_12_2_0_0" data-passage="iiCor 12.2" id="iiCor.12.2"/><sup>2</sup>I know a man in Christ, fourteen years ago (whether in the body, I know not; or whether out of the body, I know not; God knoweth), such a one caught up even to the third heaven.

<span data-osisref="Bible:2Cor.12.3" data-parsed="2Cor_12_3_0_0" data-passage="iiCor 12.3" id="iiCor.12.3"/><sup>3</sup>And I know such a man (whether in the body, or apart from the body, I know not; God knoweth), 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Cor.12.4" data-parsed="2Cor_12_4_0_0" data-passage="iiCor 12.4" id="iiCor.12.4"/><sup>4</sup>how that he was caught up into Paradise, and heard unspeakable words, which it is not lawful for a man to utter. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Cor.12.5" data-parsed="2Cor_12_5_0_0" data-passage="iiCor 12.5" id="iiCor.12.5"/><sup>5</sup>On behalf of such a one will I glory: but on mine own behalf I will not glory,
save in <i>my</i> weaknesses. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Cor.12.6" data-parsed="2Cor_12_6_0_0" data-passage="iiCor 12.6" id="iiCor.12.6"/><sup>6</sup>For if I should desire to glory, I shall not be foolish; for I shall speak the truth: but I forbear, lest any man should account of me above that which he seeth me <i>to be</i>, or heareth from me. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Cor.12.7" data-parsed="2Cor_12_7_0_0" data-passage="iiCor 12.7" id="iiCor.12.7"/><sup>7</sup>And by reason of the exceeding greatness of the revelations,
that I should not be exalted overmuch, there was given to me a thorn in the flesh, a messenger of Satan to buffet me, that I should not be exalted overmuch. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Cor.12.8" data-parsed="2Cor_12_8_0_0" data-passage="iiCor 12.8" id="iiCor.12.8"/><sup>8</sup>Concerning this thing I besought the Lord thrice, that it might depart from me. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Cor.12.9" data-parsed="2Cor_12_9_0_0" data-passage="iiCor 12.9" id="iiCor.12.9"/><sup>9</sup>And he hath said unto me, My grace is sufficient for thee: for <i>my</i> power is made perfect in weakness. Most gladly therefore will I rather glory in my weaknesses, that the power of Christ may rest upon me. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Cor.12.10" data-parsed="2Cor_12_10_0_0" data-passage="iiCor 12.10" id="iiCor.12.10"/><sup>10</sup>Wherefore I take pleasure in weaknesses, in injuries, in necessities, in persecutions, in distresses, for Christ's sake: for when I am weak, then am I strong. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Cor.12.11" data-parsed="2Cor_12_11_0_0" data-passage="iiCor 12.11" id="iiCor.12.11"/><sup>11</sup>I am become foolish: ye compelled me; for I ought to have been commended of you: for in nothing was I behind the very chiefest apostles, though I am nothing. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Cor.12.12" data-parsed="2Cor_12_12_0_0" data-passage="iiCor 12.12" id="iiCor.12.12"/><sup>12</sup>Truly the signs of an apostle were wrought among you in all patience, by signs and wonders and mighty works. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Cor.12.13" data-parsed="2Cor_12_13_0_0" data-passage="iiCor 12.13" id="iiCor.12.13"/><sup>13</sup>For what is there wherein ye were made inferior to the rest of the churches, except <i>it be</i> that I myself was not a burden to you?
forgive me this wrong. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Cor.12.14" data-parsed="2Cor_12_14_0_0" data-passage="iiCor 12.14" id="iiCor.12.14"/><sup>14</sup>Behold, this is the third time I am ready to come to you; and I will not be a burden to you: for I seek not yours, but you: for the children ought not to lay up for the parents, but the parents for the children. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Cor.12.15" data-parsed="2Cor_12_15_0_0" data-passage="iiCor 12.15" id="iiCor.12.15"/><sup>15</sup>And I will most gladly spend and be spent for your souls. If I love you more abundantly, am I loved the less? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Cor.12.16" data-parsed="2Cor_12_16_0_0" data-passage="iiCor 12.16" id="iiCor.12.16"/><sup>16</sup>But be it so, I did not myself burden you; but, being crafty, I caught you with guile.

<span data-osisref="Bible:2Cor.12.17" data-parsed="2Cor_12_17_0_0" data-passage="iiCor 12.17" id="iiCor.12.17"/><sup>17</sup>Did I take advantage of you by any one of them whom I have sent unto you? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Cor.12.18" data-parsed="2Cor_12_18_0_0" data-passage="iiCor 12.18" id="iiCor.12.18"/><sup>18</sup>I exhorted Titus, and I sent the brother with him. Did Titus take any advantage of you? walked we not in the same spirit? <i>walked we</i> not in the same steps? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Cor.12.19" data-parsed="2Cor_12_19_0_0" data-passage="iiCor 12.19" id="iiCor.12.19"/><sup>19</sup>Ye think all this time that we are excusing ourselves unto you. In the sight of God speak we in Christ. But all things,
beloved, <i>are</i> for your edifying. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Cor.12.20" data-parsed="2Cor_12_20_0_0" data-passage="iiCor 12.20" id="iiCor.12.20"/><sup>20</sup>For I fear, lest by any means,
when I come, I should find you not such as I would, and should myself be found of you such as ye would not; lest by any means <i>there should be</i>
strife, jealousy, wraths, factions, backbitings, whisperings, swellings,
tumults; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Cor.12.21" data-parsed="2Cor_12_21_0_0" data-passage="iiCor 12.21" id="iiCor.12.21"/><sup>21</sup>lest again when I come my God should humble me before you, and I should mourn for many of them that have sinned heretofore, and repented not of the uncleanness and fornication and lasciviousness which they committed.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>