<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>2 Corinthians 2</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">2 Corinthians 2</span></div><div data-next="iiCor.3" data-prev="iiCor.1" data-progress="93.23%" data-shorttitle="" id="iiCor.2" title="2 Corinthians 2">
<h2 id="iiCor.2-p0.1">2</h2>
<p id="iiCor.2-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Cor.2.1" data-parsed="2Cor_2_1_0_0" data-passage="iiCor 2.1" id="iiCor.2.1"/><sup>1</sup>But I determined this for myself, that I would not come again to you with sorrow. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Cor.2.2" data-parsed="2Cor_2_2_0_0" data-passage="iiCor 2.2" id="iiCor.2.2"/><sup>2</sup>For if I make you sorry, who then is he that maketh me glad but he that is made sorry by me? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Cor.2.3" data-parsed="2Cor_2_3_0_0" data-passage="iiCor 2.3" id="iiCor.2.3"/><sup>3</sup>And I wrote this very thing, lest,
when I came, I should have sorrow from them of whom I ought to rejoice;
having confidence in you all, that my joy is <i>the joy</i> of you all.

<span data-osisref="Bible:2Cor.2.4" data-parsed="2Cor_2_4_0_0" data-passage="iiCor 2.4" id="iiCor.2.4"/><sup>4</sup>For out of much affliction and anguish of heart I wrote unto you with many tears; not that ye should be made sorry, but that ye might know the love that I have more abundantly unto you. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Cor.2.5" data-parsed="2Cor_2_5_0_0" data-passage="iiCor 2.5" id="iiCor.2.5"/><sup>5</sup>But if any hath caused sorrow, he hath caused sorrow, not to me, but in part (that I press not too heavily) to you all. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Cor.2.6" data-parsed="2Cor_2_6_0_0" data-passage="iiCor 2.6" id="iiCor.2.6"/><sup>6</sup>Sufficient to such a one is this punishment which was <i>inflicted</i> by the many; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Cor.2.7" data-parsed="2Cor_2_7_0_0" data-passage="iiCor 2.7" id="iiCor.2.7"/><sup>7</sup>so that contrariwise ye should rather forgive him and comfort him, lest by any means such a one should be swallowed up with his overmuch sorrow. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Cor.2.8" data-parsed="2Cor_2_8_0_0" data-passage="iiCor 2.8" id="iiCor.2.8"/><sup>8</sup>Wherefore I beseech you to confirm <i>your</i> love toward him. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Cor.2.9" data-parsed="2Cor_2_9_0_0" data-passage="iiCor 2.9" id="iiCor.2.9"/><sup>9</sup>For to this end also did I write, that I might know the proof of you, whether ye are obedient in all things. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Cor.2.10" data-parsed="2Cor_2_10_0_0" data-passage="iiCor 2.10" id="iiCor.2.10"/><sup>10</sup>But to whom ye forgive anything, I <i>forgive</i> also: for what I also have forgiven, if I have forgiven anything, for your sakes <i>have I forgiven it</i> in the presence of Christ; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Cor.2.11" data-parsed="2Cor_2_11_0_0" data-passage="iiCor 2.11" id="iiCor.2.11"/><sup>11</sup>that no advantage may be gained over us by Satan: for we are not ignorant of his devices. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Cor.2.12" data-parsed="2Cor_2_12_0_0" data-passage="iiCor 2.12" id="iiCor.2.12"/><sup>12</sup>Now when I came to Troas for the gospel of Christ, and when a door was opened unto me in the Lord, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Cor.2.13" data-parsed="2Cor_2_13_0_0" data-passage="iiCor 2.13" id="iiCor.2.13"/><sup>13</sup>I had no relief for my spirit, because I found not Titus my brother: but taking my leave of them, I went forth into Macedonia. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Cor.2.14" data-parsed="2Cor_2_14_0_0" data-passage="iiCor 2.14" id="iiCor.2.14"/><sup>14</sup>But thanks be unto God, who always leadeth us in triumph in Christ, and maketh manifest through us the savor of his knowledge in every place. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Cor.2.15" data-parsed="2Cor_2_15_0_0" data-passage="iiCor 2.15" id="iiCor.2.15"/><sup>15</sup>For we are a sweet savor of Christ unto God, in them that are saved, and in them that perish; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Cor.2.16" data-parsed="2Cor_2_16_0_0" data-passage="iiCor 2.16" id="iiCor.2.16"/><sup>16</sup>to the one a savor from death unto death; to the other a savor from life unto life. And who is sufficient for these things? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Cor.2.17" data-parsed="2Cor_2_17_0_0" data-passage="iiCor 2.17" id="iiCor.2.17"/><sup>17</sup>For we are not as the many, corrupting the word of God: but as of sincerity, but as of God, in the sight of God, speak we in Christ.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>