<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>2 Corinthians 8</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">2 Corinthians 8</span></div><div data-next="iiCor.9" data-prev="iiCor.7" data-progress="93.55%" data-shorttitle="" id="iiCor.8" title="2 Corinthians 8">
<h2 id="iiCor.8-p0.1">8</h2>
<p id="iiCor.8-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Cor.8.1" data-parsed="2Cor_8_1_0_0" data-passage="iiCor 8.1" id="iiCor.8.1"/><sup>1</sup>Moreover, brethren, we make known to you the grace of God which hath been given in the churches of Macedonia; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Cor.8.2" data-parsed="2Cor_8_2_0_0" data-passage="iiCor 8.2" id="iiCor.8.2"/><sup>2</sup>how that in much proof of affliction the abundance of their joy and their deep poverty abounded unto the riches of their liberality. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Cor.8.3" data-parsed="2Cor_8_3_0_0" data-passage="iiCor 8.3" id="iiCor.8.3"/><sup>3</sup>For according to their power, I bear witness, yea and beyond their power, <i>they gave</i> of their own accord,

<span data-osisref="Bible:2Cor.8.4" data-parsed="2Cor_8_4_0_0" data-passage="iiCor 8.4" id="iiCor.8.4"/><sup>4</sup>beseeching us with much entreaty in regard of this grace and the fellowship in the ministering to the saints: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Cor.8.5" data-parsed="2Cor_8_5_0_0" data-passage="iiCor 8.5" id="iiCor.8.5"/><sup>5</sup>and <i>this</i>, not as we had hoped, but first they gave their own selves to the Lord, and to us through the will of God. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Cor.8.6" data-parsed="2Cor_8_6_0_0" data-passage="iiCor 8.6" id="iiCor.8.6"/><sup>6</sup>Insomuch that we exhorted Titus, that as he made a beginning before, so he would also complete in you this grace also.

<span data-osisref="Bible:2Cor.8.7" data-parsed="2Cor_8_7_0_0" data-passage="iiCor 8.7" id="iiCor.8.7"/><sup>7</sup>But as ye abound in everything, <i>in</i> faith, and utterance, and knowledge, and <i>in</i> all earnestness, and <i>in</i> your love to us,
<i>see</i> that ye abound in this grace also. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Cor.8.8" data-parsed="2Cor_8_8_0_0" data-passage="iiCor 8.8" id="iiCor.8.8"/><sup>8</sup>I speak not by way of commandment, but as proving through the earnestness of others the sincerity also of your love. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Cor.8.9" data-parsed="2Cor_8_9_0_0" data-passage="iiCor 8.9" id="iiCor.8.9"/><sup>9</sup>For ye know the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ, that,
though he was rich, yet for your sakes he became poor, that ye through his poverty might become rich. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Cor.8.10" data-parsed="2Cor_8_10_0_0" data-passage="iiCor 8.10" id="iiCor.8.10"/><sup>10</sup>And herein I give <i>my</i> judgment: for this is expedient for you, who were the first to make a beginning a year ago,
not only to do, but also to will. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Cor.8.11" data-parsed="2Cor_8_11_0_0" data-passage="iiCor 8.11" id="iiCor.8.11"/><sup>11</sup>But now complete the doing also; that as <i>there was</i> the readiness to will, so <i>there may be</i> the completion also out of your ability. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Cor.8.12" data-parsed="2Cor_8_12_0_0" data-passage="iiCor 8.12" id="iiCor.8.12"/><sup>12</sup>For if the readiness is there,
<i>it is</i> acceptable according as <i>a man</i> hath, not according as <i>he</i> hath not. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Cor.8.13" data-parsed="2Cor_8_13_0_0" data-passage="iiCor 8.13" id="iiCor.8.13"/><sup>13</sup>For <i>I say</i> not <i>this</i> that others may be eased <i>and</i> ye distressed; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Cor.8.14" data-parsed="2Cor_8_14_0_0" data-passage="iiCor 8.14" id="iiCor.8.14"/><sup>14</sup>but by equality: your abundance <i>being a supply</i> at this present time for their want, that their abundance also may become <i>a supply</i> for your want; that there may be equality: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Cor.8.15" data-parsed="2Cor_8_15_0_0" data-passage="iiCor 8.15" id="iiCor.8.15"/><sup>15</sup>as it is written, He that <i>gathered</i> much had nothing over; and he that <i>gathered</i> little had no lack. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Cor.8.16" data-parsed="2Cor_8_16_0_0" data-passage="iiCor 8.16" id="iiCor.8.16"/><sup>16</sup>But thanks be to God, who putteth the same earnest care for you into the heart of Titus.

<span data-osisref="Bible:2Cor.8.17" data-parsed="2Cor_8_17_0_0" data-passage="iiCor 8.17" id="iiCor.8.17"/><sup>17</sup>For he accepted indeed our exhortation; but being himself very earnest,
he went forth unto you of his own accord. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Cor.8.18" data-parsed="2Cor_8_18_0_0" data-passage="iiCor 8.18" id="iiCor.8.18"/><sup>18</sup>And we have sent together with him the brother whose praise in the gospel <i>is spread</i> through all the churches; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Cor.8.19" data-parsed="2Cor_8_19_0_0" data-passage="iiCor 8.19" id="iiCor.8.19"/><sup>19</sup>and not only so, but who was also appointed by the churches to travel with us in <i>the matter of</i> this grace, which is ministered by us to the glory of the Lord, and <i>to show</i> our readiness:

<span data-osisref="Bible:2Cor.8.20" data-parsed="2Cor_8_20_0_0" data-passage="iiCor 8.20" id="iiCor.8.20"/><sup>20</sup>Avoiding this, that any man should blame us in <i>the matter of</i>
this bounty which is ministered by us: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Cor.8.21" data-parsed="2Cor_8_21_0_0" data-passage="iiCor 8.21" id="iiCor.8.21"/><sup>21</sup>for we take thought for things honorable, not only in the sight of the Lord, but also in the sight of men.

<span data-osisref="Bible:2Cor.8.22" data-parsed="2Cor_8_22_0_0" data-passage="iiCor 8.22" id="iiCor.8.22"/><sup>22</sup>and we have sent with them our brother, whom we have many times proved earnest in many things, but now much more earnest, by reason of the great confidence which <i>he hath</i> in you. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Cor.8.23" data-parsed="2Cor_8_23_0_0" data-passage="iiCor 8.23" id="iiCor.8.23"/><sup>23</sup>Whether <i>any inquire</i>
about Titus, <i>he is</i> my partner and <i>my</i> fellow-worker to you-ward, or our brethren, <i>they are</i> the messengers of the churches,
<i>they are</i> the glory of Christ. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Cor.8.24" data-parsed="2Cor_8_24_0_0" data-passage="iiCor 8.24" id="iiCor.8.24"/><sup>24</sup>Show ye therefore unto them in the face of the churches the proof of your love, and of our glorying on your behalf.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>