<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>2 Kings 21</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">2 Kings 21</span></div><div data-next="iiKgs.22" data-prev="iiKgs.20" data-progress="36.34%" data-shorttitle="" id="iiKgs.21" title="2 Kings 21">
<h2 id="iiKgs.21-p0.1">21</h2>
<p id="iiKgs.21-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Kgs.21.1" data-parsed="2Kgs_21_1_0_0" data-passage="iiKgs 21.1" id="iiKgs.21.1"/><sup>1</sup>Manasseh was twelve years old when he began to reign; and he reigned five and fifty years in Jerusalem: and his mother's name was Hephzibah. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Kgs.21.2" data-parsed="2Kgs_21_2_0_0" data-passage="iiKgs 21.2" id="iiKgs.21.2"/><sup>2</sup>And he did that which was evil in the sight of Jehovah, after the abominations of the nations whom Jehovah cast out before the children of Israel. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Kgs.21.3" data-parsed="2Kgs_21_3_0_0" data-passage="iiKgs 21.3" id="iiKgs.21.3"/><sup>3</sup>For he built again the high places which Hezekiah his father had destroyed; and he reared up altars for Baal, and made an Asherah, as did Ahab king of Israel, and worshipped all the host of heaven, and served them.

<span data-osisref="Bible:2Kgs.21.4" data-parsed="2Kgs_21_4_0_0" data-passage="iiKgs 21.4" id="iiKgs.21.4"/><sup>4</sup>And he built altars in the house of Jehovah, whereof Jehovah said, In Jerusalem will I put my name. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Kgs.21.5" data-parsed="2Kgs_21_5_0_0" data-passage="iiKgs 21.5" id="iiKgs.21.5"/><sup>5</sup>And he built altars for all the host of heaven in the two courts of the house of Jehovah. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Kgs.21.6" data-parsed="2Kgs_21_6_0_0" data-passage="iiKgs 21.6" id="iiKgs.21.6"/><sup>6</sup>And he made his son to pass through the fire, and practised augury, and used enchantments, and dealt with them that had familiar spirits, and with wizards: he wrought much evil in the sight of Jehovah, to provoke him to anger. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Kgs.21.7" data-parsed="2Kgs_21_7_0_0" data-passage="iiKgs 21.7" id="iiKgs.21.7"/><sup>7</sup>And he set the graven image of Asherah, that he had made, in the house of which Jehovah said to David and to Solomon his son, In this house, and in Jerusalem, which I have chosen out of all the tribes of Israel, will I put my name for ever;

<span data-osisref="Bible:2Kgs.21.8" data-parsed="2Kgs_21_8_0_0" data-passage="iiKgs 21.8" id="iiKgs.21.8"/><sup>8</sup>neither will I cause the feet of Israel to wander any more out of the land which I gave their fathers, if only they will observe to do according to all that I have commanded them, and according to all the law that my servant Moses commanded them. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Kgs.21.9" data-parsed="2Kgs_21_9_0_0" data-passage="iiKgs 21.9" id="iiKgs.21.9"/><sup>9</sup>But they hearkened not: and Manasseh seduced them to do that which is evil more than did the nations whom Jehovah destroyed before the children of Israel.</p>
<p id="iiKgs.21-p2">
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Kgs.21.10" data-parsed="2Kgs_21_10_0_0" data-passage="iiKgs 21.10" id="iiKgs.21.10"/><sup>10</sup>And Jehovah spake by his servants the prophets, saying, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Kgs.21.11" data-parsed="2Kgs_21_11_0_0" data-passage="iiKgs 21.11" id="iiKgs.21.11"/><sup>11</sup>Because Manasseh king of Judah hath done these abominations, and hath done wickedly above all that the Amorites did, that were before him, and hath made Judah also to sin with his idols; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Kgs.21.12" data-parsed="2Kgs_21_12_0_0" data-passage="iiKgs 21.12" id="iiKgs.21.12"/><sup>12</sup>therefore thus saith Jehovah, the God of Israel, Behold, I bring such evil upon Jerusalem and Judah, that whosoever heareth of it, both his ears shall tingle. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Kgs.21.13" data-parsed="2Kgs_21_13_0_0" data-passage="iiKgs 21.13" id="iiKgs.21.13"/><sup>13</sup>And I will stretch over Jerusalem the line of Samaria, and the plummet of the house of Ahab; and I will wipe Jerusalem as a man wipeth a dish, wiping it and turning it upside down. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Kgs.21.14" data-parsed="2Kgs_21_14_0_0" data-passage="iiKgs 21.14" id="iiKgs.21.14"/><sup>14</sup>And I will cast off the remnant of mine inheritance, and deliver them into the hand of their enemies; and they shall become a prey and a spoil to all their enemies; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Kgs.21.15" data-parsed="2Kgs_21_15_0_0" data-passage="iiKgs 21.15" id="iiKgs.21.15"/><sup>15</sup>because they have done that which is evil in my sight, and have provoked me to anger, since the day their fathers came forth out of Egypt, even unto this day.</p>
<p id="iiKgs.21-p3">
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Kgs.21.16" data-parsed="2Kgs_21_16_0_0" data-passage="iiKgs 21.16" id="iiKgs.21.16"/><sup>16</sup>Moreover Manasseh shed innocent blood very much, till he had filled Jerusalem from one end to another; besides his sin wherewith he made Judah to sin, in doing that which was evil in the sight of Jehovah. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Kgs.21.17" data-parsed="2Kgs_21_17_0_0" data-passage="iiKgs 21.17" id="iiKgs.21.17"/><sup>17</sup>Now the rest of the acts of Manasseh, and all that he did, and his sin that he sinned, are they not written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Judah?

<span data-osisref="Bible:2Kgs.21.18" data-parsed="2Kgs_21_18_0_0" data-passage="iiKgs 21.18" id="iiKgs.21.18"/><sup>18</sup>And Manasseh slept with his fathers, and was buried in the garden of his own house, in the garden of Uzza: and Amon his son reigned in his stead.</p>
<p id="iiKgs.21-p4">
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Kgs.21.19" data-parsed="2Kgs_21_19_0_0" data-passage="iiKgs 21.19" id="iiKgs.21.19"/><sup>19</sup>Amon was twenty and two years old when he began to reign; and he reigned two years in Jerusalem: and his mother's name was Meshullemeth the daughter of Haruz of Jotbah. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Kgs.21.20" data-parsed="2Kgs_21_20_0_0" data-passage="iiKgs 21.20" id="iiKgs.21.20"/><sup>20</sup>And he did that which was evil in the sight of Jehovah, as did Manasseh his father. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Kgs.21.21" data-parsed="2Kgs_21_21_0_0" data-passage="iiKgs 21.21" id="iiKgs.21.21"/><sup>21</sup>And he walked in all the way that his father walked in, and served the idols that his father served,
and worshipped them: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Kgs.21.22" data-parsed="2Kgs_21_22_0_0" data-passage="iiKgs 21.22" id="iiKgs.21.22"/><sup>22</sup>and he forsook Jehovah, the God of his fathers,
and walked not in the way of Jehovah. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Kgs.21.23" data-parsed="2Kgs_21_23_0_0" data-passage="iiKgs 21.23" id="iiKgs.21.23"/><sup>23</sup>And the servants of Amon conspired against him, and put the king to death in his own house. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Kgs.21.24" data-parsed="2Kgs_21_24_0_0" data-passage="iiKgs 21.24" id="iiKgs.21.24"/><sup>24</sup>But the people of the land slew all them that had conspired against king Amon;
and the people of the land made Josiah his son king in his stead. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Kgs.21.25" data-parsed="2Kgs_21_25_0_0" data-passage="iiKgs 21.25" id="iiKgs.21.25"/><sup>25</sup>Now the rest of the acts of Amon which he did, are they not written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Judah? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Kgs.21.26" data-parsed="2Kgs_21_26_0_0" data-passage="iiKgs 21.26" id="iiKgs.21.26"/><sup>26</sup>And he was buried in his sepulchre in the garden of Uzza: and Josiah his son reigned in his stead.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>