<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>2 Kings 9</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">2 Kings 9</span></div><div data-next="iiKgs.10" data-prev="iiKgs.8" data-progress="34.93%" data-shorttitle="" id="iiKgs.9" title="2 Kings 9">
<h2 id="iiKgs.9-p0.1">9</h2>
<p id="iiKgs.9-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Kgs.9.1" data-parsed="2Kgs_9_1_0_0" data-passage="iiKgs 9.1" id="iiKgs.9.1"/><sup>1</sup>And Elisha the prophet called one of the sons of the prophets, and said unto him, Gird up thy loins, and take this vial of oil in thy hand, and go to Ramoth-gilead. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Kgs.9.2" data-parsed="2Kgs_9_2_0_0" data-passage="iiKgs 9.2" id="iiKgs.9.2"/><sup>2</sup>And when thou comest thither, look out there Jehu the son of Jehoshaphat the son of Nimshi, and go in, and make him arise up from among his brethren, and carry him to an inner chamber. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Kgs.9.3" data-parsed="2Kgs_9_3_0_0" data-passage="iiKgs 9.3" id="iiKgs.9.3"/><sup>3</sup>Then take the vial of oil, and pour it on his head, and say, Thus saith Jehovah, I have anointed thee king over Israel. Then open the door, and flee, and tarry not.

<span data-osisref="Bible:2Kgs.9.4" data-parsed="2Kgs_9_4_0_0" data-passage="iiKgs 9.4" id="iiKgs.9.4"/><sup>4</sup>So the young man, even the young man the prophet, went to Ramoth-gilead.

<span data-osisref="Bible:2Kgs.9.5" data-parsed="2Kgs_9_5_0_0" data-passage="iiKgs 9.5" id="iiKgs.9.5"/><sup>5</sup>And when he came, behold, the captains of the host were sitting; and he said, I have an errand to thee, O captain. And Jehu said, Unto which of us all? And he said, To thee, O captain. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Kgs.9.6" data-parsed="2Kgs_9_6_0_0" data-passage="iiKgs 9.6" id="iiKgs.9.6"/><sup>6</sup>And he arose, and went into the house; and he poured the oil on his head, and said unto him, Thus saith Jehovah, the God of Israel, I have anointed thee king over the people of Jehovah, even over Israel. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Kgs.9.7" data-parsed="2Kgs_9_7_0_0" data-passage="iiKgs 9.7" id="iiKgs.9.7"/><sup>7</sup>And thou shalt smite the house of Ahab thy master, that I may avenge the blood of my servants the prophets, and the blood of all the servants of Jehovah, at the hand of Jezebel. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Kgs.9.8" data-parsed="2Kgs_9_8_0_0" data-passage="iiKgs 9.8" id="iiKgs.9.8"/><sup>8</sup>For the whole house of Ahab shall perish; and I will cut off from Ahab every man-child, and him that is shut up and him that is left at large in Israel.

<span data-osisref="Bible:2Kgs.9.9" data-parsed="2Kgs_9_9_0_0" data-passage="iiKgs 9.9" id="iiKgs.9.9"/><sup>9</sup>And I will make the house of Ahab like the house of Jeroboam the son of Nebat, and like the house of Baasha the son of Ahijah. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Kgs.9.10" data-parsed="2Kgs_9_10_0_0" data-passage="iiKgs 9.10" id="iiKgs.9.10"/><sup>10</sup>And the dogs shall eat Jezebel in the portion of Jezreel, and there shall be none to bury her. And he opened the door, and fled.</p>
<p id="iiKgs.9-p2">
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Kgs.9.11" data-parsed="2Kgs_9_11_0_0" data-passage="iiKgs 9.11" id="iiKgs.9.11"/><sup>11</sup>Then Jehu came forth to the servants of his lord: and one said unto him, Is all well? wherefore came this mad fellow to thee? And he said unto them, Ye know the man and what his talk was. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Kgs.9.12" data-parsed="2Kgs_9_12_0_0" data-passage="iiKgs 9.12" id="iiKgs.9.12"/><sup>12</sup>And they said, It is false; tell us now. And he said, Thus and thus spake he to me, saying, Thus saith Jehovah, I have anointed thee king over Israel. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Kgs.9.13" data-parsed="2Kgs_9_13_0_0" data-passage="iiKgs 9.13" id="iiKgs.9.13"/><sup>13</sup>Then they hasted,
and took every man his garment, and put it under him on the top of the stairs, and blew the trumpet, saying, Jehu is king.</p>
<p id="iiKgs.9-p3">
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Kgs.9.14" data-parsed="2Kgs_9_14_0_0" data-passage="iiKgs 9.14" id="iiKgs.9.14"/><sup>14</sup>So Jehu the son of Jehoshaphat the son of Nimshi conspired against Joram. (Now Joram was keeping Ramoth-gilead, he and all Israel, because of Hazael king of Syria; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Kgs.9.15" data-parsed="2Kgs_9_15_0_0" data-passage="iiKgs 9.15" id="iiKgs.9.15"/><sup>15</sup>but king Joram was returned to be healed in Jezreel of the wounds which the Syrians had given him, when he fought with Hazael king of Syria.) And Jehu said, If this be your mind, then let none escape and go forth out of the city, to go to tell it in Jezreel. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Kgs.9.16" data-parsed="2Kgs_9_16_0_0" data-passage="iiKgs 9.16" id="iiKgs.9.16"/><sup>16</sup>So Jehu rode in a chariot, and went to Jezreel; for Joram lay there. And Ahaziah king of Judah was come down to see Joram.</p>
<p id="iiKgs.9-p4">
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Kgs.9.17" data-parsed="2Kgs_9_17_0_0" data-passage="iiKgs 9.17" id="iiKgs.9.17"/><sup>17</sup>Now the watchman was standing on the tower in Jezreel, and he spied the company of Jehu as he came, and said, I see a company. And Joram said, Take a horseman, and send to meet them, and let him say, Is it peace? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Kgs.9.18" data-parsed="2Kgs_9_18_0_0" data-passage="iiKgs 9.18" id="iiKgs.9.18"/><sup>18</sup>So there went one on horseback to meet him, and said, Thus saith the king, Is it peace? And Jehu said, What hast thou to do with peace? turn thee behind me.
And the watchman told, saying, The messenger came to them, but he cometh not back. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Kgs.9.19" data-parsed="2Kgs_9_19_0_0" data-passage="iiKgs 9.19" id="iiKgs.9.19"/><sup>19</sup>Then he sent out a second on horseback, who came to them, and said, Thus saith the king, Is it peace? And Jehu answered, What hast thou to do with peace? turn thee behind me. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Kgs.9.20" data-parsed="2Kgs_9_20_0_0" data-passage="iiKgs 9.20" id="iiKgs.9.20"/><sup>20</sup>And the watchman told, saying, He came even unto them, and cometh not back: and the driving is like the driving of Jehu the son of Nimshi; for he driveth furiously.</p>
<p id="iiKgs.9-p5">
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Kgs.9.21" data-parsed="2Kgs_9_21_0_0" data-passage="iiKgs 9.21" id="iiKgs.9.21"/><sup>21</sup>And Joram said, Make ready. And they made ready his chariot. And Joram king of Israel and Ahaziah king of Judah went out, each in his chariot, and they went out to meet Jehu, and found him in the portion of Naboth the Jezreelite. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Kgs.9.22" data-parsed="2Kgs_9_22_0_0" data-passage="iiKgs 9.22" id="iiKgs.9.22"/><sup>22</sup>And it came to pass, when Joram saw Jehu, that he said, Is it peace, Jehu? And he answered, What peace, so long as the whoredoms of thy mother Jezebel and her witchcrafts are so many? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Kgs.9.23" data-parsed="2Kgs_9_23_0_0" data-passage="iiKgs 9.23" id="iiKgs.9.23"/><sup>23</sup>And Joram turned his hands, and fled, and said to Ahaziah, There is treachery, O Ahaziah.

<span data-osisref="Bible:2Kgs.9.24" data-parsed="2Kgs_9_24_0_0" data-passage="iiKgs 9.24" id="iiKgs.9.24"/><sup>24</sup>And Jehu drew his bow with his full strength, and smote Joram between his arms; and the arrow went out at his heart, and he sunk down in his chariot. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Kgs.9.25" data-parsed="2Kgs_9_25_0_0" data-passage="iiKgs 9.25" id="iiKgs.9.25"/><sup>25</sup>Then said <i>Jehu</i> to Bidkar his captain, Take up, and cast him in the portion of the field of Naboth the Jezreelite; for remember how that, when I and thou rode together after Ahab his father, Jehovah laid this burden upon him: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Kgs.9.26" data-parsed="2Kgs_9_26_0_0" data-passage="iiKgs 9.26" id="iiKgs.9.26"/><sup>26</sup>Surely I have seen yesterday the blood of Naboth,
and the blood of his sons, saith Jehovah; and I will requite thee in this plat, saith Jehovah. Now therefore take and cast him into the plat <i>of ground</i>, according to the word of Jehovah.</p>
<p id="iiKgs.9-p6">
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Kgs.9.27" data-parsed="2Kgs_9_27_0_0" data-passage="iiKgs 9.27" id="iiKgs.9.27"/><sup>27</sup>But when Ahaziah the king of Judah saw this, he fled by the way of the garden-house. And Jehu followed after him, and said, Smite him also in the chariot: <i>and they smote him</i> at the ascent of Gur, which is by Ibleam.
And he fled to Megiddo, and died there. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Kgs.9.28" data-parsed="2Kgs_9_28_0_0" data-passage="iiKgs 9.28" id="iiKgs.9.28"/><sup>28</sup>And his servants carried him in a chariot to Jerusalem, and buried him in his sepulchre with his fathers in the city of David.</p>
<p id="iiKgs.9-p7">
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Kgs.9.29" data-parsed="2Kgs_9_29_0_0" data-passage="iiKgs 9.29" id="iiKgs.9.29"/><sup>29</sup>And in the eleventh year of Joram the son of Ahab began Ahaziah to reign over Judah. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Kgs.9.30" data-parsed="2Kgs_9_30_0_0" data-passage="iiKgs 9.30" id="iiKgs.9.30"/><sup>30</sup>And when Jehu was come to Jezreel, Jezebel heard of it; and she painted her eyes, and attired her head, and looked out at the window. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Kgs.9.31" data-parsed="2Kgs_9_31_0_0" data-passage="iiKgs 9.31" id="iiKgs.9.31"/><sup>31</sup>And as Jehu entered in at the gate, she said, Is it peace, thou Zimri, thy master's murderer? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Kgs.9.32" data-parsed="2Kgs_9_32_0_0" data-passage="iiKgs 9.32" id="iiKgs.9.32"/><sup>32</sup>And he lifted up his face to the window,
and said, Who is on my side? who? And there looked out to him two or three eunuchs. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Kgs.9.33" data-parsed="2Kgs_9_33_0_0" data-passage="iiKgs 9.33" id="iiKgs.9.33"/><sup>33</sup>And he said, Throw her down. So they threw her down; and some of her blood was sprinkled on the wall, and on the horses: and he trod her under foot. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Kgs.9.34" data-parsed="2Kgs_9_34_0_0" data-passage="iiKgs 9.34" id="iiKgs.9.34"/><sup>34</sup>And when he was come in, he did eat and drink; and he said,
See now to this cursed woman, and bury her; for she is a king's daughter.

<span data-osisref="Bible:2Kgs.9.35" data-parsed="2Kgs_9_35_0_0" data-passage="iiKgs 9.35" id="iiKgs.9.35"/><sup>35</sup>And they went to bury her; but they found no more of her than the skull, and the feet, and the palms of her hands. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Kgs.9.36" data-parsed="2Kgs_9_36_0_0" data-passage="iiKgs 9.36" id="iiKgs.9.36"/><sup>36</sup>Wherefore they came back, and told him. And he said, This is the word of Jehovah, which he spake by his servant Elijah the Tishbite, saying, In the portion of Jezreel shall the dogs eat the flesh of Jezebel; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Kgs.9.37" data-parsed="2Kgs_9_37_0_0" data-passage="iiKgs 9.37" id="iiKgs.9.37"/><sup>37</sup>and the body of Jezebel shall be as dung upon the face of the field in the portion of Jezreel, so that they shall not say, This is Jezebel.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>