<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>2 Peter 2</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">2 Peter 2</span></div><div data-next="iiPet.3" data-prev="iiPet.1" data-progress="97.90%" data-shorttitle="" id="iiPet.2" title="2 Peter 2">
<h2 id="iiPet.2-p0.1">2</h2>
<p id="iiPet.2-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Pet.2.1" data-parsed="2Pet_2_1_0_0" data-passage="iiPet 2.1" id="iiPet.2.1"/><sup>1</sup>But there arose false prophets also among the people, as among you also there shall be false teachers, who shall privily bring in destructive heresies, denying even the Master that bought them, bringing upon themselves swift destruction. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Pet.2.2" data-parsed="2Pet_2_2_0_0" data-passage="iiPet 2.2" id="iiPet.2.2"/><sup>2</sup>And many shall follow their lascivious doings; by reason of whom the way of the truth shall be evil spoken of. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Pet.2.3" data-parsed="2Pet_2_3_0_0" data-passage="iiPet 2.3" id="iiPet.2.3"/><sup>3</sup>And in covetousness shall they with feigned words make merchandise of you: whose sentence now from of old lingereth not, and their destruction slumbereth not.

<span data-osisref="Bible:2Pet.2.4" data-parsed="2Pet_2_4_0_0" data-passage="iiPet 2.4" id="iiPet.2.4"/><sup>4</sup>For if God spared not angels when they sinned, but cast them down to hell, and committed them to pits of darkness, to be reserved unto judgment;

<span data-osisref="Bible:2Pet.2.5" data-parsed="2Pet_2_5_0_0" data-passage="iiPet 2.5" id="iiPet.2.5"/><sup>5</sup>and spared not the ancient world, but preserved Noah with seven others,
a preacher of righteousness, when he brought a flood upon the world of the ungodly; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Pet.2.6" data-parsed="2Pet_2_6_0_0" data-passage="iiPet 2.6" id="iiPet.2.6"/><sup>6</sup>and turning the cities of Sodom and Gomorrah into ashes condemned them with an overthrow, having made them an example unto those that should live ungodly; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Pet.2.7" data-parsed="2Pet_2_7_0_0" data-passage="iiPet 2.7" id="iiPet.2.7"/><sup>7</sup>and delivered righteous Lot, sore distressed by the lascivious life of the wicked 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Pet.2.8" data-parsed="2Pet_2_8_0_0" data-passage="iiPet 2.8" id="iiPet.2.8"/><sup>8</sup>(for that righteous man dwelling among them, in seeing and hearing, vexed <i>his</i> righteous soul from day to day with <i>their</i> lawless deeds): 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Pet.2.9" data-parsed="2Pet_2_9_0_0" data-passage="iiPet 2.9" id="iiPet.2.9"/><sup>9</sup>the Lord knoweth how to deliver the godly out of temptation, and to keep the unrighteous under punishment unto the day of judgment; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Pet.2.10" data-parsed="2Pet_2_10_0_0" data-passage="iiPet 2.10" id="iiPet.2.10"/><sup>10</sup>but chiefly them that walk after the flesh in the lust of defilement, and despise dominion. Daring, self-willed, they tremble not to rail at dignities: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Pet.2.11" data-parsed="2Pet_2_11_0_0" data-passage="iiPet 2.11" id="iiPet.2.11"/><sup>11</sup>whereas angels, though greater in might and power, bring not a railing judgment against them before the Lord. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Pet.2.12" data-parsed="2Pet_2_12_0_0" data-passage="iiPet 2.12" id="iiPet.2.12"/><sup>12</sup>But these, as creatures without reason, born mere animals to be taken and destroyed, railing in matters whereof they are ignorant, shall in their destroying surely be destroyed, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Pet.2.13" data-parsed="2Pet_2_13_0_0" data-passage="iiPet 2.13" id="iiPet.2.13"/><sup>13</sup>suffering wrong as the hire of wrong-doing; <i>men</i> that count it pleasure to revel in the day-time,
spots and blemishes, revelling in their deceivings while they feast with you;

<span data-osisref="Bible:2Pet.2.14" data-parsed="2Pet_2_14_0_0" data-passage="iiPet 2.14" id="iiPet.2.14"/><sup>14</sup>having eyes full of adultery, and that cannot cease from sin; enticing unstedfast souls; having a heart exercised in covetousness; children of cursing; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Pet.2.15" data-parsed="2Pet_2_15_0_0" data-passage="iiPet 2.15" id="iiPet.2.15"/><sup>15</sup>forsaking the right way, they went astray, having followed the way of Balaam the <i>son</i> of Beor, who loved the hire of wrong-doing;

<span data-osisref="Bible:2Pet.2.16" data-parsed="2Pet_2_16_0_0" data-passage="iiPet 2.16" id="iiPet.2.16"/><sup>16</sup>but he was rebuked for his own transgression: a dumb ass spake with man's voice and stayed the madness of the prophet. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Pet.2.17" data-parsed="2Pet_2_17_0_0" data-passage="iiPet 2.17" id="iiPet.2.17"/><sup>17</sup>These are springs without water, and mists driven by a storm; for whom the blackness of darkness hath been reserved. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Pet.2.18" data-parsed="2Pet_2_18_0_0" data-passage="iiPet 2.18" id="iiPet.2.18"/><sup>18</sup>For, uttering great swelling <i>words</i>
of vanity, they entice in the lusts of the flesh, by lasciviousness, those who are just escaping from them that live in error; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Pet.2.19" data-parsed="2Pet_2_19_0_0" data-passage="iiPet 2.19" id="iiPet.2.19"/><sup>19</sup>promising them liberty, while they themselves are bondservants of corruption; for of whom a man is overcome, of the same is he also brought into bondage. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Pet.2.20" data-parsed="2Pet_2_20_0_0" data-passage="iiPet 2.20" id="iiPet.2.20"/><sup>20</sup>For if,
after they have escaped the defilements of the world through the knowledge of the Lord and Saviour Jesus Christ, they are again entangled therein and overcome, the last state is become worse with them than the first. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Pet.2.21" data-parsed="2Pet_2_21_0_0" data-passage="iiPet 2.21" id="iiPet.2.21"/><sup>21</sup>For it were better for them not to have known the way of righteousness, than,
after knowing it, to turn back from the holy commandment delivered unto them.

<span data-osisref="Bible:2Pet.2.22" data-parsed="2Pet_2_22_0_0" data-passage="iiPet 2.22" id="iiPet.2.22"/><sup>22</sup>It has happened unto them according to the true proverb, The dog turning to his own vomit again, and the sow that had washed to wallowing in the mire.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>