<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>2 Samuel 20</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">2 Samuel 20</span></div><div data-next="iiSam.21" data-prev="iiSam.19" data-progress="30.49%" data-shorttitle="" id="iiSam.20" title="2 Samuel 20">
<h2 id="iiSam.20-p0.1">20</h2>
<p id="iiSam.20-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Sam.20.1" data-parsed="2Sam_20_1_0_0" data-passage="iiSam 20.1" id="iiSam.20.1"/><sup>1</sup>And there happened to be there a base fellow, whose name was Sheba, the son of Bichri, a Benjamite: and he blew the trumpet, and said, We have no portion in David, neither have we inheritance in the son of Jesse:
every man to his tents, O Israel. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Sam.20.2" data-parsed="2Sam_20_2_0_0" data-passage="iiSam 20.2" id="iiSam.20.2"/><sup>2</sup>So all the men of Israel went up from following David, and followed Sheba the son of Bichri; but the men of Judah clave unto their king, from the Jordan even to Jerusalem.</p>
<p id="iiSam.20-p2">
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Sam.20.3" data-parsed="2Sam_20_3_0_0" data-passage="iiSam 20.3" id="iiSam.20.3"/><sup>3</sup>And David came to his house at Jerusalem; and the king took the ten women his concubines, whom he had left to keep the house, and put them in ward, and provided them with sustenance, but went not in unto them. So they were shut up unto the day of their death, living in widowhood.</p>
<p id="iiSam.20-p3">
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Sam.20.4" data-parsed="2Sam_20_4_0_0" data-passage="iiSam 20.4" id="iiSam.20.4"/><sup>4</sup>Then said the king to Amasa, Call me the men of Judah together within three days, and be thou here present. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Sam.20.5" data-parsed="2Sam_20_5_0_0" data-passage="iiSam 20.5" id="iiSam.20.5"/><sup>5</sup>So Amasa went to call <i>the men of</i> Judah together; but he tarried longer than the set time which he had appointed him. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Sam.20.6" data-parsed="2Sam_20_6_0_0" data-passage="iiSam 20.6" id="iiSam.20.6"/><sup>6</sup>And David said to Abishai, Now will Sheba the son of Bichri do us more harm than did Absalom: take thou thy lord's servants, and pursue after him, lest he get him fortified cities, and escape out of our sight. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Sam.20.7" data-parsed="2Sam_20_7_0_0" data-passage="iiSam 20.7" id="iiSam.20.7"/><sup>7</sup>And there went out after him Joab's men, and the Cherethites and the Pelethites, and all the mighty men; and they went out of Jerusalem, to pursue after Sheba the son of Bichri. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Sam.20.8" data-parsed="2Sam_20_8_0_0" data-passage="iiSam 20.8" id="iiSam.20.8"/><sup>8</sup>When they were at the great stone which is in Gibeon, Amasa came to meet them. And Joab was girded with his apparel of war that he had put on, and thereon was a girdle with a sword fastened upon his loins in the sheath thereof; and as he went forth it fell out. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Sam.20.9" data-parsed="2Sam_20_9_0_0" data-passage="iiSam 20.9" id="iiSam.20.9"/><sup>9</sup>And Joab said to Amasa, Is it well with thee, my brother? And Joab took Amasa by the beard with his right hand to kiss him. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Sam.20.10" data-parsed="2Sam_20_10_0_0" data-passage="iiSam 20.10" id="iiSam.20.10"/><sup>10</sup>But Amasa took no heed to the sword that was in Joab's hand: so he smote him therewith in the body, and shed out his bowels to the ground, and struck him not again;
and he died.</p>
<p id="iiSam.20-p4">
And Joab and Abishai his brother pursued after Sheba the son of Bichri.

<span data-osisref="Bible:2Sam.20.11" data-parsed="2Sam_20_11_0_0" data-passage="iiSam 20.11" id="iiSam.20.11"/><sup>11</sup>And there stood by him one of Joab's young men, and said, He that favoreth Joab, and he that is for David, let him follow Joab. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Sam.20.12" data-parsed="2Sam_20_12_0_0" data-passage="iiSam 20.12" id="iiSam.20.12"/><sup>12</sup>And Amasa lay wallowing in his blood in the midst of the highway. And when the man saw that all the people stood still, he carried Amasa out of the highway into the field, and cast a garment over him, when he saw that every one that came by him stood still. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Sam.20.13" data-parsed="2Sam_20_13_0_0" data-passage="iiSam 20.13" id="iiSam.20.13"/><sup>13</sup>When he was removed out of the highway, all the people went on after Joab, to pursue after Sheba the son of Bichri.</p>
<p id="iiSam.20-p5">
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Sam.20.14" data-parsed="2Sam_20_14_0_0" data-passage="iiSam 20.14" id="iiSam.20.14"/><sup>14</sup>And he went through all the tribes of Israel unto Abel, and to Beth-maacah, and all the Berites: and they were gathered together, and went also after him. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Sam.20.15" data-parsed="2Sam_20_15_0_0" data-passage="iiSam 20.15" id="iiSam.20.15"/><sup>15</sup>And they came and besieged him in Abel of Beth-maacah,
and they cast up a mound against the city, and it stood against the rampart;
and all the people that were with Joab battered the wall, to throw it down.

<span data-osisref="Bible:2Sam.20.16" data-parsed="2Sam_20_16_0_0" data-passage="iiSam 20.16" id="iiSam.20.16"/><sup>16</sup>Then cried a wise woman out of the city, Hear, hear; say, I pray you,
unto Joab, Come near hither, that I may speak with thee. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Sam.20.17" data-parsed="2Sam_20_17_0_0" data-passage="iiSam 20.17" id="iiSam.20.17"/><sup>17</sup>And he came near unto her; and the woman said, Art thou Joab? And he answered, I am. Then she said unto him, Hear the words of thy handmaid. And he answered, I do hear. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Sam.20.18" data-parsed="2Sam_20_18_0_0" data-passage="iiSam 20.18" id="iiSam.20.18"/><sup>18</sup>Then she spake, saying, They were wont to speak in old time,
saying, They shall surely ask <i>counsel</i> at Abel: and so they ended <i>the matter</i>. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Sam.20.19" data-parsed="2Sam_20_19_0_0" data-passage="iiSam 20.19" id="iiSam.20.19"/><sup>19</sup>I am of them that are peaceable and faithful in Israel: thou seekest to destroy a city and a mother in Israel: why wilt thou swallow up the inheritance of Jehovah? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Sam.20.20" data-parsed="2Sam_20_20_0_0" data-passage="iiSam 20.20" id="iiSam.20.20"/><sup>20</sup>And Joab answered and said, Far be it, far be it from me, that I should swallow up or destroy. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Sam.20.21" data-parsed="2Sam_20_21_0_0" data-passage="iiSam 20.21" id="iiSam.20.21"/><sup>21</sup>The matter is not so: but a man of the hill-country of Ephraim, Sheba the son of Bichri by name, hath lifted up his hand against the king, even against David;
deliver him only, and I will depart from the city. And the woman said unto Joab, Behold, his head shall be thrown to thee over the wall. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Sam.20.22" data-parsed="2Sam_20_22_0_0" data-passage="iiSam 20.22" id="iiSam.20.22"/><sup>22</sup>Then the woman went unto all the people in her wisdom. And they cut off the head of Sheba the son of Bichri, and threw it out to Joab. And he blew the trumpet,
and they were dispersed from the city, every man to his tent. And Joab returned to Jerusalem unto the king.</p>
<p id="iiSam.20-p6">
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Sam.20.23" data-parsed="2Sam_20_23_0_0" data-passage="iiSam 20.23" id="iiSam.20.23"/><sup>23</sup>Now Joab was over all the host of Israel; and Benaiah the son of Jehoiada was over the Cherethites and over the Pelethites; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Sam.20.24" data-parsed="2Sam_20_24_0_0" data-passage="iiSam 20.24" id="iiSam.20.24"/><sup>24</sup>and Adoram was over the men subject to taskwork; and Jehoshaphat the son of Ahilud was the recorder; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Sam.20.25" data-parsed="2Sam_20_25_0_0" data-passage="iiSam 20.25" id="iiSam.20.25"/><sup>25</sup>and Sheva was scribe; and Zadok and Abiathar were priests; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Sam.20.26" data-parsed="2Sam_20_26_0_0" data-passage="iiSam 20.26" id="iiSam.20.26"/><sup>26</sup>and also Ira the Jairite was chief minister unto David.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>