<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>2 Samuel 8</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">2 Samuel 8</span></div><div data-next="iiSam.9" data-prev="iiSam.7" data-progress="29.16%" data-shorttitle="" id="iiSam.8" title="2 Samuel 8">
<h2 id="iiSam.8-p0.1">8</h2>
<p id="iiSam.8-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Sam.8.1" data-parsed="2Sam_8_1_0_0" data-passage="iiSam 8.1" id="iiSam.8.1"/><sup>1</sup>And after this it came to pass, that David smote the Philistines,
and subdued them: and David took the bridle of the mother city out of the hand of the Philistines.</p>
<p id="iiSam.8-p2">
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Sam.8.2" data-parsed="2Sam_8_2_0_0" data-passage="iiSam 8.2" id="iiSam.8.2"/><sup>2</sup>And he smote Moab, and measured them with the line, making them to lie down on the ground; and he measured two lines to put to death, and one full line to keep alive. And the Moabites became servants to David, and brought tribute.</p>
<p id="iiSam.8-p3">
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Sam.8.3" data-parsed="2Sam_8_3_0_0" data-passage="iiSam 8.3" id="iiSam.8.3"/><sup>3</sup>David smote also Hadadezer the son of Rehob, king of Zobah, as he went to recover his dominion at the River. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Sam.8.4" data-parsed="2Sam_8_4_0_0" data-passage="iiSam 8.4" id="iiSam.8.4"/><sup>4</sup>And David took from him a thousand and seven hundred horsemen, and twenty thousand footmen: and David hocked all the chariot horses, but reserved of them for a hundred chariots. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Sam.8.5" data-parsed="2Sam_8_5_0_0" data-passage="iiSam 8.5" id="iiSam.8.5"/><sup>5</sup>And when the Syrians of Damascus came to succor Hadadezer king of Zobah, David smote of the Syrians two and twenty thousand men. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Sam.8.6" data-parsed="2Sam_8_6_0_0" data-passage="iiSam 8.6" id="iiSam.8.6"/><sup>6</sup>Then David put garrisons in Syria of Damascus; and the Syrians became servants to David, and brought tribute. And Jehovah gave victory to David whithersoever he went.

<span data-osisref="Bible:2Sam.8.7" data-parsed="2Sam_8_7_0_0" data-passage="iiSam 8.7" id="iiSam.8.7"/><sup>7</sup>And David took the shields of gold that were on the servants of Hadadezer, and brought them to Jerusalem. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Sam.8.8" data-parsed="2Sam_8_8_0_0" data-passage="iiSam 8.8" id="iiSam.8.8"/><sup>8</sup>And from Betah and from Berothai, cities of Hadadezer, king David took exceeding much brass. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Sam.8.9" data-parsed="2Sam_8_9_0_0" data-passage="iiSam 8.9" id="iiSam.8.9"/><sup>9</sup>And when Toi king of Hamath heard that David had smitten all the host of Hadadezer, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Sam.8.10" data-parsed="2Sam_8_10_0_0" data-passage="iiSam 8.10" id="iiSam.8.10"/><sup>10</sup>then Toi sent Joram his son unto king David, to salute him,
and to bless him, because he had fought against Hadadezer and smitten him:
for Hadadezer had wars with Toi. And <i>Joram</i> brought with him vessels of silver, and vessels of gold, and vessels of brass: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Sam.8.11" data-parsed="2Sam_8_11_0_0" data-passage="iiSam 8.11" id="iiSam.8.11"/><sup>11</sup>These also did king David dedicate unto Jehovah, with the silver and gold that he dedicated of all the nations which he subdued; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Sam.8.12" data-parsed="2Sam_8_12_0_0" data-passage="iiSam 8.12" id="iiSam.8.12"/><sup>12</sup>of Syria, and of Moab, and of the children of Ammon, and of the Philistines, and of Amalek, and of the spoil of Hadadezer, son of Rehob, king of Zobah.</p>
<p id="iiSam.8-p4">
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Sam.8.13" data-parsed="2Sam_8_13_0_0" data-passage="iiSam 8.13" id="iiSam.8.13"/><sup>13</sup>And David gat him a name when he returned from smiting the Syrians in the Valley of Salt, even eighteen thousand men. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Sam.8.14" data-parsed="2Sam_8_14_0_0" data-passage="iiSam 8.14" id="iiSam.8.14"/><sup>14</sup>And he put garrisons in Edom; throughout all Edom put he garrisons, and all the Edomites became servants to David. And Jehovah gave victory to David whithersoever he went.</p>
<p id="iiSam.8-p5">
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Sam.8.15" data-parsed="2Sam_8_15_0_0" data-passage="iiSam 8.15" id="iiSam.8.15"/><sup>15</sup>And David reigned over all Israel; and David executed justice and righteousness unto all his people. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Sam.8.16" data-parsed="2Sam_8_16_0_0" data-passage="iiSam 8.16" id="iiSam.8.16"/><sup>16</sup>And Joab the son of Zeruiah was over the host; and Jehoshaphat the son of Ahilud was recorder; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Sam.8.17" data-parsed="2Sam_8_17_0_0" data-passage="iiSam 8.17" id="iiSam.8.17"/><sup>17</sup>and Zadok the son of Ahitub, and Ahimelech the son of Abiathar, were priests; and Seraiah was scribe; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Sam.8.18" data-parsed="2Sam_8_18_0_0" data-passage="iiSam 8.18" id="iiSam.8.18"/><sup>18</sup>and Benaiah the son of Jehoiada <i>was over</i> the Cherethites and the Pelethites; and David's sons were chief ministers.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>