<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>2 Samuel 7</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">2 Samuel 7</span></div><div data-next="iiSam.8" data-prev="iiSam.6" data-progress="29.05%" data-shorttitle="" id="iiSam.7" title="2 Samuel 7">
<h2 id="iiSam.7-p0.1">7</h2>
<p id="iiSam.7-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Sam.7.1" data-parsed="2Sam_7_1_0_0" data-passage="iiSam 7.1" id="iiSam.7.1"/><sup>1</sup>And it came to pass, when the king dwelt in his house, and Jehovah had given him rest from all his enemies round about, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Sam.7.2" data-parsed="2Sam_7_2_0_0" data-passage="iiSam 7.2" id="iiSam.7.2"/><sup>2</sup>that the king said unto Nathan the prophet, See now, I dwell in a house of cedar, but the ark of God dwelleth within curtains. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Sam.7.3" data-parsed="2Sam_7_3_0_0" data-passage="iiSam 7.3" id="iiSam.7.3"/><sup>3</sup>And Nathan said to the king, Go, do all that is in thy heart; for Jehovah is with thee. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Sam.7.4" data-parsed="2Sam_7_4_0_0" data-passage="iiSam 7.4" id="iiSam.7.4"/><sup>4</sup>And it came to pass the same night, that the word of Jehovah came unto Nathan, saying, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Sam.7.5" data-parsed="2Sam_7_5_0_0" data-passage="iiSam 7.5" id="iiSam.7.5"/><sup>5</sup>Go and tell my servant David, Thus saith Jehovah, Shalt thou build me a house for me to dwell in? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Sam.7.6" data-parsed="2Sam_7_6_0_0" data-passage="iiSam 7.6" id="iiSam.7.6"/><sup>6</sup>for I have not dwelt in a house since the day that I brought up the children of Israel out of Egypt, even to this day, but have walked in a tent and in a tabernacle. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Sam.7.7" data-parsed="2Sam_7_7_0_0" data-passage="iiSam 7.7" id="iiSam.7.7"/><sup>7</sup>In all places wherein I have walked with all the children of Israel, spake I a word with any of the tribes of Israel, whom I commanded to be shepherd of my people Israel, saying, Why have ye not built me a house of cedar? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Sam.7.8" data-parsed="2Sam_7_8_0_0" data-passage="iiSam 7.8" id="iiSam.7.8"/><sup>8</sup>Now therefore thus shalt thou say unto my servant David, Thus saith Jehovah of hosts, I took thee from the sheepcote, from following the sheep, that thou shouldest be prince over my people, over Israel; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Sam.7.9" data-parsed="2Sam_7_9_0_0" data-passage="iiSam 7.9" id="iiSam.7.9"/><sup>9</sup>and I have been with thee whithersoever thou wentest, and have cut off all thine enemies from before thee; and I will make thee a great name, like unto the name of the great ones that are in the earth. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Sam.7.10" data-parsed="2Sam_7_10_0_0" data-passage="iiSam 7.10" id="iiSam.7.10"/><sup>10</sup>And I will appoint a place for my people Israel, and will plant them, that they may dwell in their own place, and be moved no more; neither shall the children of wickedness afflict them any more, as at the first,

<span data-osisref="Bible:2Sam.7.11" data-parsed="2Sam_7_11_0_0" data-passage="iiSam 7.11" id="iiSam.7.11"/><sup>11</sup>and <i>as</i> from the day that I commanded judges to be over my people Israel; and I will cause thee to rest from all thine enemies. Moreover Jehovah telleth thee that Jehovah will make thee a house. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Sam.7.12" data-parsed="2Sam_7_12_0_0" data-passage="iiSam 7.12" id="iiSam.7.12"/><sup>12</sup>When thy days are fulfilled, and thou shalt sleep with thy fathers, I will set up thy seed after thee, that shall proceed out of thy bowels, and I will establish his kingdom. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Sam.7.13" data-parsed="2Sam_7_13_0_0" data-passage="iiSam 7.13" id="iiSam.7.13"/><sup>13</sup>He shall build a house for my name, and I will establish the throne of his kingdom for ever. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Sam.7.14" data-parsed="2Sam_7_14_0_0" data-passage="iiSam 7.14" id="iiSam.7.14"/><sup>14</sup>I will be his father, and he shall be my son: if he commit iniquity, I will chasten him with the rod of men, and with the stripes of the children of men; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Sam.7.15" data-parsed="2Sam_7_15_0_0" data-passage="iiSam 7.15" id="iiSam.7.15"/><sup>15</sup>but my lovingkindness shall not depart from him, as I took it from Saul, whom I put away before thee.

<span data-osisref="Bible:2Sam.7.16" data-parsed="2Sam_7_16_0_0" data-passage="iiSam 7.16" id="iiSam.7.16"/><sup>16</sup>And thy house and thy kingdom shall be made sure for ever before thee:
thy throne shall be established for ever. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Sam.7.17" data-parsed="2Sam_7_17_0_0" data-passage="iiSam 7.17" id="iiSam.7.17"/><sup>17</sup>According to all these words,
and according to all this vision, so did Nathan speak unto David.</p>
<p id="iiSam.7-p2">
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Sam.7.18" data-parsed="2Sam_7_18_0_0" data-passage="iiSam 7.18" id="iiSam.7.18"/><sup>18</sup>Then David the king went in, and sat before Jehovah; and he said, Who am I, O Lord Jehovah, and what is my house, that thou hast brought me thus far? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Sam.7.19" data-parsed="2Sam_7_19_0_0" data-passage="iiSam 7.19" id="iiSam.7.19"/><sup>19</sup>And this was yet a small thing in thine eyes, O Lord Jehovah; but thou hast spoken also of thy servant's house for a great while to come; and this <i>too</i> after the manner of men, O Lord Jehovah! 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Sam.7.20" data-parsed="2Sam_7_20_0_0" data-passage="iiSam 7.20" id="iiSam.7.20"/><sup>20</sup>And what can David say more unto thee? for thou knowest thy servant, O Lord Jehovah.

<span data-osisref="Bible:2Sam.7.21" data-parsed="2Sam_7_21_0_0" data-passage="iiSam 7.21" id="iiSam.7.21"/><sup>21</sup>For thy word's sake, and according to thine own heart, hast thou wrought all this greatness, to make thy servant know it. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Sam.7.22" data-parsed="2Sam_7_22_0_0" data-passage="iiSam 7.22" id="iiSam.7.22"/><sup>22</sup>Wherefore thou art great, O Jehovah God: for there is none like thee, neither is there any God besides thee, according to all that we have heard with our ears.

<span data-osisref="Bible:2Sam.7.23" data-parsed="2Sam_7_23_0_0" data-passage="iiSam 7.23" id="iiSam.7.23"/><sup>23</sup>And what one nation in the earth is like thy people, even like Israel,
whom God went to redeem unto himself for a people, and to make him a name,
and to do great things for you, and terrible things for thy land, before thy people, whom thou redeemest to thee out of Egypt, <i>from</i> the nations and their gods? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Sam.7.24" data-parsed="2Sam_7_24_0_0" data-passage="iiSam 7.24" id="iiSam.7.24"/><sup>24</sup>And thou didst establish to thyself thy people Israel to be a people unto thee for ever; and thou, Jehovah, becamest their God.

<span data-osisref="Bible:2Sam.7.25" data-parsed="2Sam_7_25_0_0" data-passage="iiSam 7.25" id="iiSam.7.25"/><sup>25</sup>And now, O Jehovah God, the word that thou hast spoken concerning thy servant, and concerning his house, confirm thou it for ever, and do as thou hast spoken. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Sam.7.26" data-parsed="2Sam_7_26_0_0" data-passage="iiSam 7.26" id="iiSam.7.26"/><sup>26</sup>And let thy name be magnified for ever, saying, Jehovah of hosts is God over Israel; and the house of thy servant David shall be established before thee. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Sam.7.27" data-parsed="2Sam_7_27_0_0" data-passage="iiSam 7.27" id="iiSam.7.27"/><sup>27</sup>For thou, O Jehovah of hosts, the God of Israel, hast revealed to thy servant, saying, I will build thee a house:
therefore hath thy servant found in his heart to pray this prayer unto thee.

<span data-osisref="Bible:2Sam.7.28" data-parsed="2Sam_7_28_0_0" data-passage="iiSam 7.28" id="iiSam.7.28"/><sup>28</sup>And now, O Lord Jehovah, thou art God, and thy words are truth, and thou hast promised this good thing unto thy servant: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Sam.7.29" data-parsed="2Sam_7_29_0_0" data-passage="iiSam 7.29" id="iiSam.7.29"/><sup>29</sup>now therefore let it please thee to bless the house of thy servant, that it may continue for ever before thee; for thou, O Lord Jehovah, hast spoken it: and with thy blessing let the house of thy servant be blessed for ever.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>