<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>2 Samuel 24</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">2 Samuel 24</span></div><div data-next="iKgs" data-prev="iiSam.23" data-progress="30.92%" data-shorttitle="" id="iiSam.24" title="2 Samuel 24">
<h2 id="iiSam.24-p0.1">24</h2>
<p id="iiSam.24-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Sam.24.1" data-parsed="2Sam_24_1_0_0" data-passage="iiSam 24.1" id="iiSam.24.1"/><sup>1</sup>And again the anger of Jehovah was kindled against Israel, and he moved David against them, saying, Go, number Israel and Judah. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Sam.24.2" data-parsed="2Sam_24_2_0_0" data-passage="iiSam 24.2" id="iiSam.24.2"/><sup>2</sup>And the king said to Joab the captain of the host, who was with him, Go now to and fro through all the tribes of Israel, from Dan even to Beer-sheba, and number ye the people, that I may know the sum of the people. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Sam.24.3" data-parsed="2Sam_24_3_0_0" data-passage="iiSam 24.3" id="iiSam.24.3"/><sup>3</sup>And Joab said unto the king, Now Jehovah thy God add unto the people, how many soever they may be, a hundredfold; and may the eyes of my lord the king see it: but why doth my lord the king delight in this thing? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Sam.24.4" data-parsed="2Sam_24_4_0_0" data-passage="iiSam 24.4" id="iiSam.24.4"/><sup>4</sup>Notwithstanding, the king's word prevailed against Joab, and against the captains of the host. And Joab and the captains of the host went out from the presence of the king, to number the people of Israel. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Sam.24.5" data-parsed="2Sam_24_5_0_0" data-passage="iiSam 24.5" id="iiSam.24.5"/><sup>5</sup>And they passed over the Jordan, and encamped in Aroer, on the right side of the city that is in the middle of the valley of Gad, and unto Jazer: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Sam.24.6" data-parsed="2Sam_24_6_0_0" data-passage="iiSam 24.6" id="iiSam.24.6"/><sup>6</sup>then they came to Gilead, and to the land of Tahtim-hodshi; and they came to Dan-jaan, and round about to Sidon, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Sam.24.7" data-parsed="2Sam_24_7_0_0" data-passage="iiSam 24.7" id="iiSam.24.7"/><sup>7</sup>and came to the stronghold of Tyre, and to all the cities of the Hivites, and of the Canaanites; and they went out to the south of Judah, at Beer-sheba.

<span data-osisref="Bible:2Sam.24.8" data-parsed="2Sam_24_8_0_0" data-passage="iiSam 24.8" id="iiSam.24.8"/><sup>8</sup>So when they had gone to and from through all the land, they came to Jerusalem at the end of nine months and twenty days. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Sam.24.9" data-parsed="2Sam_24_9_0_0" data-passage="iiSam 24.9" id="iiSam.24.9"/><sup>9</sup>And Joab gave up the sum of the numbering of the people unto the king: and there were in Israel eight hundred thousand valiant men that drew the sword; and the men of Judah were five hundred thousand men.</p>
<p id="iiSam.24-p2">
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Sam.24.10" data-parsed="2Sam_24_10_0_0" data-passage="iiSam 24.10" id="iiSam.24.10"/><sup>10</sup>And David's heart smote him after that he had numbered the people. And David said unto Jehovah, I have sinned greatly in that which I have done: but now, O Jehovah, put away, I beseech thee, the iniquity of thy servant; for I have done very foolishly. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Sam.24.11" data-parsed="2Sam_24_11_0_0" data-passage="iiSam 24.11" id="iiSam.24.11"/><sup>11</sup>And when David rose up in the morning, the word of Jehovah came unto the prophet Gad, David's seer, saying, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Sam.24.12" data-parsed="2Sam_24_12_0_0" data-passage="iiSam 24.12" id="iiSam.24.12"/><sup>12</sup>Go and speak unto David, Thus saith Jehovah, I offer thee three things: choose thee one of them, that I may do it unto thee. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Sam.24.13" data-parsed="2Sam_24_13_0_0" data-passage="iiSam 24.13" id="iiSam.24.13"/><sup>13</sup>So Gad came to David, and told him, and said unto him, Shall seven years of famine come unto thee in thy land? or wilt thou flee three months before thy foes while they pursue thee?
or shall there be three days' pestilence in thy land? now advise thee, and consider what answer I shall return to him that sent me. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Sam.24.14" data-parsed="2Sam_24_14_0_0" data-passage="iiSam 24.14" id="iiSam.24.14"/><sup>14</sup>And David said unto Gad, I am in a great strait: let us fall now into the hand of Jehovah;
for his mercies are great; and let me not fall into the hand of man. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Sam.24.15" data-parsed="2Sam_24_15_0_0" data-passage="iiSam 24.15" id="iiSam.24.15"/><sup>15</sup>So Jehovah sent a pestilence upon Israel from the morning even to the time appointed; and there died of the people from Dan even to Beer-sheba seventy thousand men. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Sam.24.16" data-parsed="2Sam_24_16_0_0" data-passage="iiSam 24.16" id="iiSam.24.16"/><sup>16</sup>And when the angel stretched out his hand toward Jerusalem to destroy it, Jehovah repented him of the evil, and said to the angel that destroyed the people, It is enough; now stay thy hand. And the angel of Jehovah was by the threshing-floor of Araunah the Jebusite.

<span data-osisref="Bible:2Sam.24.17" data-parsed="2Sam_24_17_0_0" data-passage="iiSam 24.17" id="iiSam.24.17"/><sup>17</sup>And David spake unto Jehovah when he saw the angel that smote the people, and said, Lo, I have sinned, and I have done perversely; but these sheep, what have they done? let thy hand, I pray thee, be against me, and against my father's house.</p>
<p id="iiSam.24-p3">
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Sam.24.18" data-parsed="2Sam_24_18_0_0" data-passage="iiSam 24.18" id="iiSam.24.18"/><sup>18</sup>And Gad came that day to David, and said unto him, Go up, rear an altar unto Jehovah in the threshing-floor of Araunah the Jebusite. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Sam.24.19" data-parsed="2Sam_24_19_0_0" data-passage="iiSam 24.19" id="iiSam.24.19"/><sup>19</sup>And David went up according to the saying of Gad, as Jehovah commanded. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Sam.24.20" data-parsed="2Sam_24_20_0_0" data-passage="iiSam 24.20" id="iiSam.24.20"/><sup>20</sup>And Araunah looked forth, and saw the king and his servants coming on toward him:
and Araunah went out, and bowed himself before the king with his face to the ground. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Sam.24.21" data-parsed="2Sam_24_21_0_0" data-passage="iiSam 24.21" id="iiSam.24.21"/><sup>21</sup>And Araunah said, Wherefore is my lord the king come to his servant? And David said, To buy the threshing-floor of thee, to build an altar unto Jehovah, that the plague may be stayed from the people. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Sam.24.22" data-parsed="2Sam_24_22_0_0" data-passage="iiSam 24.22" id="iiSam.24.22"/><sup>22</sup>And Araunah said unto David, Let my lord the king take and offer up what seemeth good unto him: behold, the oxen for the burnt-offering, and the threshing instruments and the yokes of the oxen for the wood: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Sam.24.23" data-parsed="2Sam_24_23_0_0" data-passage="iiSam 24.23" id="iiSam.24.23"/><sup>23</sup>all this, O king,
doth Araunah give unto the king. And Araunah said unto the king, Jehovah thy God accept thee. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Sam.24.24" data-parsed="2Sam_24_24_0_0" data-passage="iiSam 24.24" id="iiSam.24.24"/><sup>24</sup>And the king said unto Araunah, Nay; but I will verily buy it of thee at a price. Neither will I offer burnt-offerings unto Jehovah my God which cost me nothing. So David bought the threshing-floor and the oxen for fifty shekels of silver. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Sam.24.25" data-parsed="2Sam_24_25_0_0" data-passage="iiSam 24.25" id="iiSam.24.25"/><sup>25</sup>And David built there an altar unto Jehovah, and offered burnt-offerings and peace-offerings. So Jehovah was entreated for the land, and the plague was stayed from Israel.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>