<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>2 Samuel 16</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">2 Samuel 16</span></div><div data-next="iiSam.17" data-prev="iiSam.15" data-progress="29.97%" data-shorttitle="" id="iiSam.16" title="2 Samuel 16">
<h2 id="iiSam.16-p0.1">16</h2>
<p id="iiSam.16-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Sam.16.1" data-parsed="2Sam_16_1_0_0" data-passage="iiSam 16.1" id="iiSam.16.1"/><sup>1</sup>And when David was a little past the top <i>of the ascent</i>,
behold, Ziba the servant of Mephibosheth met him, with a couple of asses saddled, and upon them two hundred loaves of bread, and a hundred clusters of raisins, and a hundred of summer fruits, and a bottle of wine. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Sam.16.2" data-parsed="2Sam_16_2_0_0" data-passage="iiSam 16.2" id="iiSam.16.2"/><sup>2</sup>And the king said unto Ziba, What meanest thou by these? And Ziba said, The asses are for the king's household to ride on; and the bread and summer fruit for the young men to eat; and the wine, that such as are faint in the wilderness may drink. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Sam.16.3" data-parsed="2Sam_16_3_0_0" data-passage="iiSam 16.3" id="iiSam.16.3"/><sup>3</sup>And the king said, And where is thy master's son? And Ziba said unto the king, Behold, he abideth at Jerusalem; for he said, To-day will the house of Israel restore me the kingdom of my father. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Sam.16.4" data-parsed="2Sam_16_4_0_0" data-passage="iiSam 16.4" id="iiSam.16.4"/><sup>4</sup>Then said the king to Ziba, Behold, thine is all that pertaineth unto Mephibosheth. And Ziba said, I do obeisance; let me find favor in thy sight, my lord, O king.</p>
<p id="iiSam.16-p2">
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Sam.16.5" data-parsed="2Sam_16_5_0_0" data-passage="iiSam 16.5" id="iiSam.16.5"/><sup>5</sup>And when king David came to Bahurim, behold, there came out thence a man of the family of the house of Saul, whose name was Shimei, the son of Gera;
he came out, and cursed still as he came. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Sam.16.6" data-parsed="2Sam_16_6_0_0" data-passage="iiSam 16.6" id="iiSam.16.6"/><sup>6</sup>And he cast stones at David,
and at all the servants of king David: and all the people and all the mighty men were on his right hand and on his left. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Sam.16.7" data-parsed="2Sam_16_7_0_0" data-passage="iiSam 16.7" id="iiSam.16.7"/><sup>7</sup>And thus said Shimei when he cursed, Begone, begone, thou man of blood, and base fellow: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Sam.16.8" data-parsed="2Sam_16_8_0_0" data-passage="iiSam 16.8" id="iiSam.16.8"/><sup>8</sup>Jehovah hath returned upon thee all the blood of the house of Saul, in whose stead thou hast reigned; and Jehovah hath delivered the kingdom into the hand of Absalom thy son; and, behold, thou art <i>taken</i> in thine own mischief, because thou art a man of blood.</p>
<p id="iiSam.16-p3">
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Sam.16.9" data-parsed="2Sam_16_9_0_0" data-passage="iiSam 16.9" id="iiSam.16.9"/><sup>9</sup>Then said Abishai the son of Zeruiah unto the king, Why should this dead dog curse my lord the king? let me go over, I pray thee, and take off his head. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Sam.16.10" data-parsed="2Sam_16_10_0_0" data-passage="iiSam 16.10" id="iiSam.16.10"/><sup>10</sup>And the king said, What have I to do with you, ye sons of Zeruiah? Because he curseth, and because Jehovah hath said unto him, Curse David; who then shall say, Wherefore hast thou done so? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Sam.16.11" data-parsed="2Sam_16_11_0_0" data-passage="iiSam 16.11" id="iiSam.16.11"/><sup>11</sup>And David said to Abishai, and to all his servants, Behold, my son, who came forth from my bowels, seeketh my life: how much more <i>may</i> this Benjamite now <i>do it</i>? let him alone, and let him curse; for Jehovah hath bidden him.

<span data-osisref="Bible:2Sam.16.12" data-parsed="2Sam_16_12_0_0" data-passage="iiSam 16.12" id="iiSam.16.12"/><sup>12</sup>It may be that Jehovah will look on the wrong done unto me, and that Jehovah will requite me good for <i>his</i> cursing of me this day. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Sam.16.13" data-parsed="2Sam_16_13_0_0" data-passage="iiSam 16.13" id="iiSam.16.13"/><sup>13</sup>So David and his men went by the way; and Shimei went along on the hill-side over against him, and cursed as he went, and threw stones at him, and cast dust. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Sam.16.14" data-parsed="2Sam_16_14_0_0" data-passage="iiSam 16.14" id="iiSam.16.14"/><sup>14</sup>And the king, and all the people that were with him, came weary;
and he refreshed himself there.</p>
<p id="iiSam.16-p4">
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Sam.16.15" data-parsed="2Sam_16_15_0_0" data-passage="iiSam 16.15" id="iiSam.16.15"/><sup>15</sup>And Absalom, and all the people, the men of Israel, came to Jerusalem,
and Ahithophel with him. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Sam.16.16" data-parsed="2Sam_16_16_0_0" data-passage="iiSam 16.16" id="iiSam.16.16"/><sup>16</sup>And it came to pass, when Hushai the Archite,
David's friend, was come unto Absalom, that Hushai said unto Absalom,
<i>Long</i> live the king, <i>Long</i> live the king. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Sam.16.17" data-parsed="2Sam_16_17_0_0" data-passage="iiSam 16.17" id="iiSam.16.17"/><sup>17</sup>And Absalom said to Hushai, Is this thy kindness to thy friend? why wentest thou not with thy friend? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Sam.16.18" data-parsed="2Sam_16_18_0_0" data-passage="iiSam 16.18" id="iiSam.16.18"/><sup>18</sup>And Hushai said unto Absalom, Nay; but whom Jehovah, and this people, and all the men of Israel have chosen, his will I be, and with him will I abide. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Sam.16.19" data-parsed="2Sam_16_19_0_0" data-passage="iiSam 16.19" id="iiSam.16.19"/><sup>19</sup>And again, whom should I serve? <i>should I</i> not <i>serve</i> in the presence of his son? as I have served in thy father's presence, so will I be in thy presence.</p>
<p id="iiSam.16-p5">
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Sam.16.20" data-parsed="2Sam_16_20_0_0" data-passage="iiSam 16.20" id="iiSam.16.20"/><sup>20</sup>Then said Absalom to Ahithophel, Give your counsel what we shall do.

<span data-osisref="Bible:2Sam.16.21" data-parsed="2Sam_16_21_0_0" data-passage="iiSam 16.21" id="iiSam.16.21"/><sup>21</sup>And Ahithophel said unto Absalom, Go in unto thy father's concubines,
that he hath left to keep the house; and all Israel will hear that thou art abhorred of thy father: then will the hands of all that are with thee be strong. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Sam.16.22" data-parsed="2Sam_16_22_0_0" data-passage="iiSam 16.22" id="iiSam.16.22"/><sup>22</sup>So they spread Absalom a tent upon the top of the house; and Absalom went in unto his father's concubines in the sight of all Israel.

<span data-osisref="Bible:2Sam.16.23" data-parsed="2Sam_16_23_0_0" data-passage="iiSam 16.23" id="iiSam.16.23"/><sup>23</sup>And the counsel of Ahithophel, which he gave in those days, was as if a man inquired at the oracle of God: so was all the counsel of Ahithophel both with David and with Absalom.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>