<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>2 Timothy 4</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">2 Timothy 4</span></div><div data-next="Titus" data-prev="iiTim.3" data-progress="96.09%" data-shorttitle="" id="iiTim.4" title="2 Timothy 4">
<h2 id="iiTim.4-p0.1">4</h2>
<p id="iiTim.4-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Tim.4.1" data-parsed="2Tim_4_1_0_0" data-passage="iiTim 4.1" id="iiTim.4.1"/><sup>1</sup>I charge <i>thee</i> in the sight of God, and of Christ Jesus, who shall judge the living and the dead, and by his appearing and his kingdom:

<span data-osisref="Bible:2Tim.4.2" data-parsed="2Tim_4_2_0_0" data-passage="iiTim 4.2" id="iiTim.4.2"/><sup>2</sup>preach the word; be urgent in season, out of season; reprove, rebuke,
exhort, with all longsuffering and teaching. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Tim.4.3" data-parsed="2Tim_4_3_0_0" data-passage="iiTim 4.3" id="iiTim.4.3"/><sup>3</sup>For the time will come when they will not endure the sound doctrine; but, having itching ears, will heap to themselves teachers after their own lusts; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Tim.4.4" data-parsed="2Tim_4_4_0_0" data-passage="iiTim 4.4" id="iiTim.4.4"/><sup>4</sup>and will turn away their ears from the truth, and turn aside unto fables. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Tim.4.5" data-parsed="2Tim_4_5_0_0" data-passage="iiTim 4.5" id="iiTim.4.5"/><sup>5</sup>But be thou sober in all things, suffer hardship, do the work of an evangelist, fulfil thy ministry. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Tim.4.6" data-parsed="2Tim_4_6_0_0" data-passage="iiTim 4.6" id="iiTim.4.6"/><sup>6</sup>For I am already being offered, and the time of my departure is come. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Tim.4.7" data-parsed="2Tim_4_7_0_0" data-passage="iiTim 4.7" id="iiTim.4.7"/><sup>7</sup>I have fought the good fight, I have finished the course, I have kept the faith: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Tim.4.8" data-parsed="2Tim_4_8_0_0" data-passage="iiTim 4.8" id="iiTim.4.8"/><sup>8</sup>henceforth there is laid up for me the crown of righteousness, which the Lord, the righteous judge, shall give to me at that day; and not to me only, but also to all them that have loved his appearing.

<span data-osisref="Bible:2Tim.4.9" data-parsed="2Tim_4_9_0_0" data-passage="iiTim 4.9" id="iiTim.4.9"/><sup>9</sup>Give diligence to come shortly unto me: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Tim.4.10" data-parsed="2Tim_4_10_0_0" data-passage="iiTim 4.10" id="iiTim.4.10"/><sup>10</sup>for Demas forsook me,
having loved this present world, and went to Thessalonica; Crescens to Galatia, Titus to Dalmatia. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Tim.4.11" data-parsed="2Tim_4_11_0_0" data-passage="iiTim 4.11" id="iiTim.4.11"/><sup>11</sup>Only Luke is with me. Take Mark, and bring him with thee; for he is useful to me for ministering. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Tim.4.12" data-parsed="2Tim_4_12_0_0" data-passage="iiTim 4.12" id="iiTim.4.12"/><sup>12</sup>But Tychicus I sent to Ephesus. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Tim.4.13" data-parsed="2Tim_4_13_0_0" data-passage="iiTim 4.13" id="iiTim.4.13"/><sup>13</sup>The cloak that I left at Troas with Carpus, bring when thou comest, and the books, especially the parchments. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Tim.4.14" data-parsed="2Tim_4_14_0_0" data-passage="iiTim 4.14" id="iiTim.4.14"/><sup>14</sup>Alexander the coppersmith did me much evil: the Lord will render to him according to his works: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Tim.4.15" data-parsed="2Tim_4_15_0_0" data-passage="iiTim 4.15" id="iiTim.4.15"/><sup>15</sup>of whom do thou also beware; for he greatly withstood our words.

<span data-osisref="Bible:2Tim.4.16" data-parsed="2Tim_4_16_0_0" data-passage="iiTim 4.16" id="iiTim.4.16"/><sup>16</sup>At my first defence no one took my part, but all forsook me: may it not be laid to their account. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Tim.4.17" data-parsed="2Tim_4_17_0_0" data-passage="iiTim 4.17" id="iiTim.4.17"/><sup>17</sup>But the Lord stood by me, and strengthened me; that through me the message might be fully proclaimed, and that all the Gentiles might hear: and I was delivered out of the mouth of the lion.

<span data-osisref="Bible:2Tim.4.18" data-parsed="2Tim_4_18_0_0" data-passage="iiTim 4.18" id="iiTim.4.18"/><sup>18</sup>The Lord will deliver me from every evil work, and will save me unto his heavenly kingdom: to whom <i>be</i> the glory forever and ever. Amen.

<span data-osisref="Bible:2Tim.4.19" data-parsed="2Tim_4_19_0_0" data-passage="iiTim 4.19" id="iiTim.4.19"/><sup>19</sup>Salute Prisca and Aquila, and the house of Onesiphorus. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Tim.4.20" data-parsed="2Tim_4_20_0_0" data-passage="iiTim 4.20" id="iiTim.4.20"/><sup>20</sup>Erastus remained at Corinth: but Trophimus I left at Miletus sick. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Tim.4.21" data-parsed="2Tim_4_21_0_0" data-passage="iiTim 4.21" id="iiTim.4.21"/><sup>21</sup>Give diligence to come before winter. Eubulus saluteth thee, and Pudens, and Linus, and Claudia, and all the brethren. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Tim.4.22" data-parsed="2Tim_4_22_0_0" data-passage="iiTim 4.22" id="iiTim.4.22"/><sup>22</sup>The Lord be with thy spirit.
Grace be with you.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>