<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>2 Timothy 3</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">2 Timothy 3</span></div><div data-next="iiTim.4" data-prev="iiTim.2" data-progress="96.05%" data-shorttitle="" id="iiTim.3" title="2 Timothy 3">
<h2 id="iiTim.3-p0.1">3</h2>
<p id="iiTim.3-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Tim.3.1" data-parsed="2Tim_3_1_0_0" data-passage="iiTim 3.1" id="iiTim.3.1"/><sup>1</sup>But know this, that in the last days grievous times shall come.

<span data-osisref="Bible:2Tim.3.2" data-parsed="2Tim_3_2_0_0" data-passage="iiTim 3.2" id="iiTim.3.2"/><sup>2</sup>For men shall be lovers of self, lovers of money, boastful, haughty,
railers, disobedient to parents, unthankful, unholy, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Tim.3.3" data-parsed="2Tim_3_3_0_0" data-passage="iiTim 3.3" id="iiTim.3.3"/><sup>3</sup>without natural affection, implacable, slanderers, without self-control, fierce, no lovers of good, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Tim.3.4" data-parsed="2Tim_3_4_0_0" data-passage="iiTim 3.4" id="iiTim.3.4"/><sup>4</sup>traitors, headstrong, puffed up, lovers of pleasure rather than lovers of God; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Tim.3.5" data-parsed="2Tim_3_5_0_0" data-passage="iiTim 3.5" id="iiTim.3.5"/><sup>5</sup>holding a form of godliness, but having denied the power therefore. From these also turn away. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Tim.3.6" data-parsed="2Tim_3_6_0_0" data-passage="iiTim 3.6" id="iiTim.3.6"/><sup>6</sup>For of these are they that creep into houses, and take captive silly women laden with sins, led away by divers lusts, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Tim.3.7" data-parsed="2Tim_3_7_0_0" data-passage="iiTim 3.7" id="iiTim.3.7"/><sup>7</sup>ever learning, and never able to come to the knowledge of the truth. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Tim.3.8" data-parsed="2Tim_3_8_0_0" data-passage="iiTim 3.8" id="iiTim.3.8"/><sup>8</sup>And even as Jannes and Jambres withstood Moses, so do these also withstand the truth. Men corrupted in mind, reprobate concerning the faith.

<span data-osisref="Bible:2Tim.3.9" data-parsed="2Tim_3_9_0_0" data-passage="iiTim 3.9" id="iiTim.3.9"/><sup>9</sup>But they shall proceed no further. For their folly shall be evident unto all men, as theirs also came to be. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Tim.3.10" data-parsed="2Tim_3_10_0_0" data-passage="iiTim 3.10" id="iiTim.3.10"/><sup>10</sup>But thou didst follow my teaching,
conduct, purpose, faith, longsuffering, love, patience, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Tim.3.11" data-parsed="2Tim_3_11_0_0" data-passage="iiTim 3.11" id="iiTim.3.11"/><sup>11</sup>persecutions,
sufferings. What things befell me at Antioch, at Iconium, at Lystra; what persecutions I endured. And out of them all the Lord delivered me. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Tim.3.12" data-parsed="2Tim_3_12_0_0" data-passage="iiTim 3.12" id="iiTim.3.12"/><sup>12</sup>Yea,
and all that would live godly in Christ Jesus shall suffer persecution.

<span data-osisref="Bible:2Tim.3.13" data-parsed="2Tim_3_13_0_0" data-passage="iiTim 3.13" id="iiTim.3.13"/><sup>13</sup>But evil men and impostors shall wax worse and worse, deceiving and being deceived. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Tim.3.14" data-parsed="2Tim_3_14_0_0" data-passage="iiTim 3.14" id="iiTim.3.14"/><sup>14</sup>But abide thou in the things which thou hast learned and hast been assured of, knowing of whom thou hast learned them. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Tim.3.15" data-parsed="2Tim_3_15_0_0" data-passage="iiTim 3.15" id="iiTim.3.15"/><sup>15</sup>And that from a babe thou hast known the sacred writings which are able to make thee wise unto salvation through faith which is in Christ Jesus. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Tim.3.16" data-parsed="2Tim_3_16_0_0" data-passage="iiTim 3.16" id="iiTim.3.16"/><sup>16</sup>Every span inspired of God <i>is</i> also profitable for teaching, for reproof, for correction, for instruction which is in righteousness.

<span data-osisref="Bible:2Tim.3.17" data-parsed="2Tim_3_17_0_0" data-passage="iiTim 3.17" id="iiTim.3.17"/><sup>17</sup>That the man of God may be complete, furnished completely unto every good work.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>