<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>2 Timothy 2</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">2 Timothy 2</span></div><div data-next="iiTim.3" data-prev="iiTim.1" data-progress="95.98%" data-shorttitle="" id="iiTim.2" title="2 Timothy 2">
<h2 id="iiTim.2-p0.1">2</h2>
<p id="iiTim.2-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Tim.2.1" data-parsed="2Tim_2_1_0_0" data-passage="iiTim 2.1" id="iiTim.2.1"/><sup>1</sup>Thou therefore, my child, be strengthened in the grace that is in Christ Jesus. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Tim.2.2" data-parsed="2Tim_2_2_0_0" data-passage="iiTim 2.2" id="iiTim.2.2"/><sup>2</sup>And the things which thou hast heard from me among many witnesses, the same commit thou to faithful men, who shall be able to teach others also. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Tim.2.3" data-parsed="2Tim_2_3_0_0" data-passage="iiTim 2.3" id="iiTim.2.3"/><sup>3</sup>Suffer hardship with <i>me</i>, as a good soldier of Christ Jesus. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Tim.2.4" data-parsed="2Tim_2_4_0_0" data-passage="iiTim 2.4" id="iiTim.2.4"/><sup>4</sup>No soldier on service entangleth himself in the affairs of <i>this</i> life; that he may please him who enrolled him as a soldier.

<span data-osisref="Bible:2Tim.2.5" data-parsed="2Tim_2_5_0_0" data-passage="iiTim 2.5" id="iiTim.2.5"/><sup>5</sup>And if also a man contend in the games, he is not crowded, except he have contended lawfully. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Tim.2.6" data-parsed="2Tim_2_6_0_0" data-passage="iiTim 2.6" id="iiTim.2.6"/><sup>6</sup>The husbandmen that laboreth must be the first to partake of the fruits. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Tim.2.7" data-parsed="2Tim_2_7_0_0" data-passage="iiTim 2.7" id="iiTim.2.7"/><sup>7</sup>Consider what I say; for the Lord shall give thee understanding in all things. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Tim.2.8" data-parsed="2Tim_2_8_0_0" data-passage="iiTim 2.8" id="iiTim.2.8"/><sup>8</sup>Remember Jesus Christ, risen from the dead, of the seed of David, according to my gospel: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Tim.2.9" data-parsed="2Tim_2_9_0_0" data-passage="iiTim 2.9" id="iiTim.2.9"/><sup>9</sup>wherein I suffer hardship unto bonds, as a malefactor; but the word of God is not bound.

<span data-osisref="Bible:2Tim.2.10" data-parsed="2Tim_2_10_0_0" data-passage="iiTim 2.10" id="iiTim.2.10"/><sup>10</sup>Therefore I endure all things for the elect's sake, that they also may obtain the salvation which is in Christ Jesus with eternal glory.

<span data-osisref="Bible:2Tim.2.11" data-parsed="2Tim_2_11_0_0" data-passage="iiTim 2.11" id="iiTim.2.11"/><sup>11</sup>Faithful is the saying: For if we died with him, we shall also live with him: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Tim.2.12" data-parsed="2Tim_2_12_0_0" data-passage="iiTim 2.12" id="iiTim.2.12"/><sup>12</sup>if we endure, we shall also reign with him: if we shall deny him, he also will deny us: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Tim.2.13" data-parsed="2Tim_2_13_0_0" data-passage="iiTim 2.13" id="iiTim.2.13"/><sup>13</sup>if we are faithless, he abideth faithful;
for he cannot deny himself. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Tim.2.14" data-parsed="2Tim_2_14_0_0" data-passage="iiTim 2.14" id="iiTim.2.14"/><sup>14</sup>Of these things put them in remembrance,
charging <i>them</i> in the sight of the Lord, that they strive not about words, to no profit, to the subverting of them that hear. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Tim.2.15" data-parsed="2Tim_2_15_0_0" data-passage="iiTim 2.15" id="iiTim.2.15"/><sup>15</sup>Give diligence to present thyself approved unto God, a workman that needeth not to be ashamed, handling aright the word of truth. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Tim.2.16" data-parsed="2Tim_2_16_0_0" data-passage="iiTim 2.16" id="iiTim.2.16"/><sup>16</sup>But shun profane babblings: for they will proceed further in ungodliness, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Tim.2.17" data-parsed="2Tim_2_17_0_0" data-passage="iiTim 2.17" id="iiTim.2.17"/><sup>17</sup>and their word will eat as doth a gangrene: or whom is Hymenaeus an Philetus; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Tim.2.18" data-parsed="2Tim_2_18_0_0" data-passage="iiTim 2.18" id="iiTim.2.18"/><sup>18</sup>men who concerning the truth have erred, saying that the resurrection is past already, and overthrow the faith of some. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Tim.2.19" data-parsed="2Tim_2_19_0_0" data-passage="iiTim 2.19" id="iiTim.2.19"/><sup>19</sup>Howbeit the firm foundation of God standeth, having this seal, The Lord knoweth them that are his: and,
Let every one that nameth the name of the Lord depart from unrighteousness.

<span data-osisref="Bible:2Tim.2.20" data-parsed="2Tim_2_20_0_0" data-passage="iiTim 2.20" id="iiTim.2.20"/><sup>20</sup>Now in a great house there are not only vessels of gold and of silver,
but also of wood and of earth; and some unto honor, and some unto dishonor.

<span data-osisref="Bible:2Tim.2.21" data-parsed="2Tim_2_21_0_0" data-passage="iiTim 2.21" id="iiTim.2.21"/><sup>21</sup>If a man therefore purge himself from these, he shall be a vessel unto honor, sanctified, meet for the master's use, prepared unto every good work.

<span data-osisref="Bible:2Tim.2.22" data-parsed="2Tim_2_22_0_0" data-passage="iiTim 2.22" id="iiTim.2.22"/><sup>22</sup>after righteousness, faith, love, pace, with them that call on the Lord out of a pure heart. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Tim.2.23" data-parsed="2Tim_2_23_0_0" data-passage="iiTim 2.23" id="iiTim.2.23"/><sup>23</sup>But foolish and ignorant questionings refuse,
knowing that they gender strifes. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Tim.2.24" data-parsed="2Tim_2_24_0_0" data-passage="iiTim 2.24" id="iiTim.2.24"/><sup>24</sup>And the Lord's servant must not strive, but be gentle towards all, apt to teach, forbearing, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Tim.2.25" data-parsed="2Tim_2_25_0_0" data-passage="iiTim 2.25" id="iiTim.2.25"/><sup>25</sup>in meekness correcting them that oppose themselves; if peradventure God may give them repentance unto the knowledge of the truth, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:2Tim.2.26" data-parsed="2Tim_2_26_0_0" data-passage="iiTim 2.26" id="iiTim.2.26"/><sup>26</sup>and they may recover themselves out of the snare of the devil, having been taken captive by him unto his will.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>