<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>1 John 3</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">1 John 3</span></div><div data-next="iJohn.4" data-prev="iJohn.2" data-progress="98.17%" data-shorttitle="" id="iJohn.3" title="1 John 3">
<h2 id="iJohn.3-p0.1">3</h2>
<p id="iJohn.3-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:1John.3.1" data-parsed="1John_3_1_0_0" data-passage="iJohn 3.1" id="iJohn.3.1"/><sup>1</sup>Behold what manner of love the Father hath bestowed upon us, that we should be called children of God; and <i>such</i> we are. For this cause the world knoweth us not, because it knew him not. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1John.3.2" data-parsed="1John_3_2_0_0" data-passage="iJohn 3.2" id="iJohn.3.2"/><sup>2</sup>Beloved, now are we children of God, and it is not yet made manifest what we shall be. We know that, if he shall be manifested, we shall be like him; for we shall see him even as he is. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1John.3.3" data-parsed="1John_3_3_0_0" data-passage="iJohn 3.3" id="iJohn.3.3"/><sup>3</sup>And every one that hath this hope <i>set</i> on him purifieth himself, even as he is pure. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1John.3.4" data-parsed="1John_3_4_0_0" data-passage="iJohn 3.4" id="iJohn.3.4"/><sup>4</sup>Every one that doeth sin doeth also lawlessness; and sin is lawlessness. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1John.3.5" data-parsed="1John_3_5_0_0" data-passage="iJohn 3.5" id="iJohn.3.5"/><sup>5</sup>And ye know that he was manifested to take away sins; and in him is no sin. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1John.3.6" data-parsed="1John_3_6_0_0" data-passage="iJohn 3.6" id="iJohn.3.6"/><sup>6</sup>Whosoever abideth in him sinneth not: whosoever sinneth hath not seen him, neither knoweth him.

<span data-osisref="Bible:1John.3.7" data-parsed="1John_3_7_0_0" data-passage="iJohn 3.7" id="iJohn.3.7"/><sup>7</sup><i>My</i> little children, let no man lead you astray: he that doeth righteousness is righteous, even as he is righteous: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1John.3.8" data-parsed="1John_3_8_0_0" data-passage="iJohn 3.8" id="iJohn.3.8"/><sup>8</sup>he that doeth sin is of the devil; for the devil sinneth from the beginning. To this end was the Son of God manifested, that he might destroy the works of the devil.

<span data-osisref="Bible:1John.3.9" data-parsed="1John_3_9_0_0" data-passage="iJohn 3.9" id="iJohn.3.9"/><sup>9</sup>Whosoever is begotten of God doeth no sin, because his seed abideth in him: and he cannot sin, because he is begotten of God. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1John.3.10" data-parsed="1John_3_10_0_0" data-passage="iJohn 3.10" id="iJohn.3.10"/><sup>10</sup>In this the children of God are manifest, and the children of the devil: whosoever doeth not righteousness is not of God, neither he that loveth not his brother.

<span data-osisref="Bible:1John.3.11" data-parsed="1John_3_11_0_0" data-passage="iJohn 3.11" id="iJohn.3.11"/><sup>11</sup>For this is the message which ye heard from the beginning, that we should love one another: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1John.3.12" data-parsed="1John_3_12_0_0" data-passage="iJohn 3.12" id="iJohn.3.12"/><sup>12</sup>not as Cain was of the evil one, and slew his brother. And wherefore slew he him? Because his works were evil, and his brother's righteous. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1John.3.13" data-parsed="1John_3_13_0_0" data-passage="iJohn 3.13" id="iJohn.3.13"/><sup>13</sup>Marvel not, brethren, if the world hateth you.

<span data-osisref="Bible:1John.3.14" data-parsed="1John_3_14_0_0" data-passage="iJohn 3.14" id="iJohn.3.14"/><sup>14</sup>We know that we have passed out of death into life, because we love the brethren. He that loveth not abideth in death. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1John.3.15" data-parsed="1John_3_15_0_0" data-passage="iJohn 3.15" id="iJohn.3.15"/><sup>15</sup>Whosoever hateth his brother is a murderer: and ye know that no murderer hath eternal life abiding in him. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1John.3.16" data-parsed="1John_3_16_0_0" data-passage="iJohn 3.16" id="iJohn.3.16"/><sup>16</sup>Hereby know we love, because he laid down his life for us: and we ought to lay down our lives for the brethren. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1John.3.17" data-parsed="1John_3_17_0_0" data-passage="iJohn 3.17" id="iJohn.3.17"/><sup>17</sup>But whoso hath the world's goods, and beholdeth his brother in need, and shutteth up his compassion from him, how doth the love of God abide in him? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1John.3.18" data-parsed="1John_3_18_0_0" data-passage="iJohn 3.18" id="iJohn.3.18"/><sup>18</sup><i>My</i>
Little children, let us not love in word, neither with the tongue; but in deed and truth. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1John.3.19" data-parsed="1John_3_19_0_0" data-passage="iJohn 3.19" id="iJohn.3.19"/><sup>19</sup>Hereby shall we know that we are of the truth, and shall assure our heart before him: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1John.3.20" data-parsed="1John_3_20_0_0" data-passage="iJohn 3.20" id="iJohn.3.20"/><sup>20</sup>because if our heart condemn us, God is greater than our heart, and knoweth all things. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1John.3.21" data-parsed="1John_3_21_0_0" data-passage="iJohn 3.21" id="iJohn.3.21"/><sup>21</sup>Beloved, if our heart condemn us not, we have boldness toward God; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1John.3.22" data-parsed="1John_3_22_0_0" data-passage="iJohn 3.22" id="iJohn.3.22"/><sup>22</sup>and whatsoever we ask we receive of him, because we keep his commandments and do the things that are pleasing in his sight. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1John.3.23" data-parsed="1John_3_23_0_0" data-passage="iJohn 3.23" id="iJohn.3.23"/><sup>23</sup>And this is his commandment, that we should believe in the name of his Son Jesus Christ, and love one another,
even as he gave us commandment. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1John.3.24" data-parsed="1John_3_24_0_0" data-passage="iJohn 3.24" id="iJohn.3.24"/><sup>24</sup>And he that keepeth his commandments abideth in him, and he in him. And hereby we know that he abideth in us, by the Spirit which he gave us.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>