<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>1 John 4</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">1 John 4</span></div><div data-next="iJohn.5" data-prev="iJohn.3" data-progress="98.23%" data-shorttitle="" id="iJohn.4" title="1 John 4">
<h2 id="iJohn.4-p0.1">4</h2>
<p id="iJohn.4-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:1John.4.1" data-parsed="1John_4_1_0_0" data-passage="iJohn 4.1" id="iJohn.4.1"/><sup>1</sup>Beloved, believe not every spirit, but prove the spirits, whether they are of God; because many false prophets are gone out into the world.

<span data-osisref="Bible:1John.4.2" data-parsed="1John_4_2_0_0" data-passage="iJohn 4.2" id="iJohn.4.2"/><sup>2</sup>Hereby know ye the Spirit of God: every spirit that confesseth that Jesus Christ is come in the flesh is of God: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1John.4.3" data-parsed="1John_4_3_0_0" data-passage="iJohn 4.3" id="iJohn.4.3"/><sup>3</sup>and every spirit that confesseth not Jesus is not of God: and this is the <i>spirit</i> of the antichrist, whereof ye have heard that it cometh; and now it is in the world already. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1John.4.4" data-parsed="1John_4_4_0_0" data-passage="iJohn 4.4" id="iJohn.4.4"/><sup>4</sup>Ye are of God, <i>my</i> little children, and have overcome them: because greater is he that is in you than he that is in the world.

<span data-osisref="Bible:1John.4.5" data-parsed="1John_4_5_0_0" data-passage="iJohn 4.5" id="iJohn.4.5"/><sup>5</sup>They are of the world: therefore speak they <i>as</i> of the world, and the world heareth them. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1John.4.6" data-parsed="1John_4_6_0_0" data-passage="iJohn 4.6" id="iJohn.4.6"/><sup>6</sup>We are of God: he that knoweth God heareth us;
he who is not of God heareth us not. By this we know the spirit of truth, and the spirit of error. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1John.4.7" data-parsed="1John_4_7_0_0" data-passage="iJohn 4.7" id="iJohn.4.7"/><sup>7</sup>Beloved, let us love one another: for love is of God; and every one that loveth is begotten of God, and knoweth God. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1John.4.8" data-parsed="1John_4_8_0_0" data-passage="iJohn 4.8" id="iJohn.4.8"/><sup>8</sup>He that loveth not knoweth not God; for God is love. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1John.4.9" data-parsed="1John_4_9_0_0" data-passage="iJohn 4.9" id="iJohn.4.9"/><sup>9</sup>Herein was the love of God manifested in us, that God hath sent his only begotten Son into the world that we might live through him. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1John.4.10" data-parsed="1John_4_10_0_0" data-passage="iJohn 4.10" id="iJohn.4.10"/><sup>10</sup>Herein is love, not that we loved God,
but that he loved us, and sent his Son <i>to be</i> the propitiation for our sins. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1John.4.11" data-parsed="1John_4_11_0_0" data-passage="iJohn 4.11" id="iJohn.4.11"/><sup>11</sup>Beloved, if God so loved us, we also ought to love one another.

<span data-osisref="Bible:1John.4.12" data-parsed="1John_4_12_0_0" data-passage="iJohn 4.12" id="iJohn.4.12"/><sup>12</sup>No man hath beheld God at any time: if we love one another, God abideth in us, and his love is perfected in us: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1John.4.13" data-parsed="1John_4_13_0_0" data-passage="iJohn 4.13" id="iJohn.4.13"/><sup>13</sup>hereby we know that we abide in him and he in us, because he hath given us of his Spirit. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1John.4.14" data-parsed="1John_4_14_0_0" data-passage="iJohn 4.14" id="iJohn.4.14"/><sup>14</sup>And we have beheld and bear witness that the Father hath sent the Son <i>to be</i> the Saviour of the world. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1John.4.15" data-parsed="1John_4_15_0_0" data-passage="iJohn 4.15" id="iJohn.4.15"/><sup>15</sup>Whosoever shall confess that Jesus is the Son of God, God abideth in him, and he in God. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1John.4.16" data-parsed="1John_4_16_0_0" data-passage="iJohn 4.16" id="iJohn.4.16"/><sup>16</sup>And we know and have believed the love which God hath in us. God is love; and he that abideth in love abideth in God, and God abideth in him. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1John.4.17" data-parsed="1John_4_17_0_0" data-passage="iJohn 4.17" id="iJohn.4.17"/><sup>17</sup>Herein is love made perfect with us, that we may have boldness in the day of judgment; because as he is,
even so are we in this world. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1John.4.18" data-parsed="1John_4_18_0_0" data-passage="iJohn 4.18" id="iJohn.4.18"/><sup>18</sup>There is no fear in love: but perfect love casteth out fear, because fear hath punishment; and he that feareth is not made perfect in love. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1John.4.19" data-parsed="1John_4_19_0_0" data-passage="iJohn 4.19" id="iJohn.4.19"/><sup>19</sup>We love, because he first loved us. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1John.4.20" data-parsed="1John_4_20_0_0" data-passage="iJohn 4.20" id="iJohn.4.20"/><sup>20</sup>If a man say, I love God, and hateth his brother, he is a liar: for he that loveth not his brother whom he hath seen, cannot love God whom he hath not seen. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1John.4.21" data-parsed="1John_4_21_0_0" data-passage="iJohn 4.21" id="iJohn.4.21"/><sup>21</sup>And this commandment have we from him, that he who loveth God love his brother also.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>