<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>1 Kings 4</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">1 Kings 4</span></div><div data-next="iKgs.5" data-prev="iKgs.3" data-progress="31.50%" data-shorttitle="" id="iKgs.4" title="1 Kings 4">
<h2 id="iKgs.4-p0.1">4</h2>
<p id="iKgs.4-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Kgs.4.1" data-parsed="1Kgs_4_1_0_0" data-passage="iKgs 4.1" id="iKgs.4.1"/><sup>1</sup>And king Solomon was king over all Israel. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Kgs.4.2" data-parsed="1Kgs_4_2_0_0" data-passage="iKgs 4.2" id="iKgs.4.2"/><sup>2</sup>And these were the princes whom he had: Azariah the son of Zadok, the priest; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Kgs.4.3" data-parsed="1Kgs_4_3_0_0" data-passage="iKgs 4.3" id="iKgs.4.3"/><sup>3</sup>Elihoreph and Ahijah, the sons of Shisha, scribes; Jehoshaphat the son of Ahilud, the recorder; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Kgs.4.4" data-parsed="1Kgs_4_4_0_0" data-passage="iKgs 4.4" id="iKgs.4.4"/><sup>4</sup>and Benaiah the son of Jehoiada was over the host; and Zadok and Abiathar were priests; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Kgs.4.5" data-parsed="1Kgs_4_5_0_0" data-passage="iKgs 4.5" id="iKgs.4.5"/><sup>5</sup>and Azariah the son of Nathan was over the officers; and Zabud the son of Nathan was chief minister, <i>and</i> the king's friend; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Kgs.4.6" data-parsed="1Kgs_4_6_0_0" data-passage="iKgs 4.6" id="iKgs.4.6"/><sup>6</sup>and Ahishar was over the household; and Adoniram the son of Abda was over the men subject to taskwork.</p>
<p id="iKgs.4-p2">
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Kgs.4.7" data-parsed="1Kgs_4_7_0_0" data-passage="iKgs 4.7" id="iKgs.4.7"/><sup>7</sup>And Solomon had twelve officers over all Israel, who provided victuals for the king and his household: each man had to make provision for a month in the year. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Kgs.4.8" data-parsed="1Kgs_4_8_0_0" data-passage="iKgs 4.8" id="iKgs.4.8"/><sup>8</sup>And these are their names: Ben-hur, in the hill-country of Ephraim; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Kgs.4.9" data-parsed="1Kgs_4_9_0_0" data-passage="iKgs 4.9" id="iKgs.4.9"/><sup>9</sup>Ben-deker, in Makaz, and in Shaalbim, and Beth-shemesh, and Elon-beth-hanan; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Kgs.4.10" data-parsed="1Kgs_4_10_0_0" data-passage="iKgs 4.10" id="iKgs.4.10"/><sup>10</sup>Ben-hesed, in Arubboth (to him <i>pertained</i>
Socoh, and all the land of Hepher); 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Kgs.4.11" data-parsed="1Kgs_4_11_0_0" data-passage="iKgs 4.11" id="iKgs.4.11"/><sup>11</sup>Ben-abinadab, in all the height of Dor (he had Taphath the daughter of Solomon to wife); 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Kgs.4.12" data-parsed="1Kgs_4_12_0_0" data-passage="iKgs 4.12" id="iKgs.4.12"/><sup>12</sup>Baana the son of Ahilud, in Taanach and Megiddo, and all Beth-shean which is beside Zarethan,
beneath Jezreel, from Beth-shean to Abel-meholah, as far as beyond Jokmeam;

<span data-osisref="Bible:1Kgs.4.13" data-parsed="1Kgs_4_13_0_0" data-passage="iKgs 4.13" id="iKgs.4.13"/><sup>13</sup>Ben-geber, in Ramoth-gilead (to him <i>pertained</i> the towns of Jair the son of Manasseh, which are in Gilead; <i>even</i> to him <i>pertained</i> the region of Argob, which is in Bashan, threescore great cities with walls and brazen bars); 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Kgs.4.14" data-parsed="1Kgs_4_14_0_0" data-passage="iKgs 4.14" id="iKgs.4.14"/><sup>14</sup>Ahinadab the son of Iddo, in Mahanaim; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Kgs.4.15" data-parsed="1Kgs_4_15_0_0" data-passage="iKgs 4.15" id="iKgs.4.15"/><sup>15</sup>Ahimaaz, in Naphtali (he also took Basemath the daughter of Solomon to wife); 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Kgs.4.16" data-parsed="1Kgs_4_16_0_0" data-passage="iKgs 4.16" id="iKgs.4.16"/><sup>16</sup>Baana the son of Hushai, in Asher and Bealoth;

<span data-osisref="Bible:1Kgs.4.17" data-parsed="1Kgs_4_17_0_0" data-passage="iKgs 4.17" id="iKgs.4.17"/><sup>17</sup>Jehoshaphat the son of Paruah, in Issachar; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Kgs.4.18" data-parsed="1Kgs_4_18_0_0" data-passage="iKgs 4.18" id="iKgs.4.18"/><sup>18</sup>Shimei the son of Ela, in Benjamin; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Kgs.4.19" data-parsed="1Kgs_4_19_0_0" data-passage="iKgs 4.19" id="iKgs.4.19"/><sup>19</sup>Geber the son of Uri, in the land of Gilead, the country of Sihon king of the Amorites and of Og king of Bashan; and <i>he was</i> the only officer that was in the land.</p>
<p id="iKgs.4-p3">
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Kgs.4.20" data-parsed="1Kgs_4_20_0_0" data-passage="iKgs 4.20" id="iKgs.4.20"/><sup>20</sup>Judah and Israel were many as the sand which is by the sea in multitude, eating and drinking and making merry. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Kgs.4.21" data-parsed="1Kgs_4_21_0_0" data-passage="iKgs 4.21" id="iKgs.4.21"/><sup>21</sup>And Solomon ruled over all the kingdoms from the River unto the land of the Philistines, and unto the border of Egypt: they brought tribute, and served Solomon all the days of his life. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Kgs.4.22" data-parsed="1Kgs_4_22_0_0" data-passage="iKgs 4.22" id="iKgs.4.22"/><sup>22</sup>And Solomon's provision for one day was thirty measures of fine flour, and threescore measures of meal, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Kgs.4.23" data-parsed="1Kgs_4_23_0_0" data-passage="iKgs 4.23" id="iKgs.4.23"/><sup>23</sup>ten fat oxen, and twenty oxen out of the pastures, and a hundred sheep, besides harts, and gazelles,
and roebucks, and fatted fowl. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Kgs.4.24" data-parsed="1Kgs_4_24_0_0" data-passage="iKgs 4.24" id="iKgs.4.24"/><sup>24</sup>For he had dominion over all <i>the region</i> on this side the River, from Tiphsah even to Gaza, over all the kings on this side the River: and he had peace on all sides round about him.

<span data-osisref="Bible:1Kgs.4.25" data-parsed="1Kgs_4_25_0_0" data-passage="iKgs 4.25" id="iKgs.4.25"/><sup>25</sup>And Judah and Israel dwelt safely, every man under his vine and under his fig-tree, from Dan even to Beer-sheba, all the days of Solomon. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Kgs.4.26" data-parsed="1Kgs_4_26_0_0" data-passage="iKgs 4.26" id="iKgs.4.26"/><sup>26</sup>And Solomon had forty thousand stalls of horses for his chariots, and twelve thousand horsemen. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Kgs.4.27" data-parsed="1Kgs_4_27_0_0" data-passage="iKgs 4.27" id="iKgs.4.27"/><sup>27</sup>And those officers provided victuals for king Solomon, and for all that came unto king Solomon's table, every man in his month; they let nothing be lacking. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Kgs.4.28" data-parsed="1Kgs_4_28_0_0" data-passage="iKgs 4.28" id="iKgs.4.28"/><sup>28</sup>Barley also and straw for the horses and swift steeds brought they unto the place where <i>the officers</i> were, every man according to his charge.</p>
<p id="iKgs.4-p4">
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Kgs.4.29" data-parsed="1Kgs_4_29_0_0" data-passage="iKgs 4.29" id="iKgs.4.29"/><sup>29</sup>And God gave Solomon wisdom and understanding exceeding much, and largeness of heart, even as the sand that is on the sea-shore. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Kgs.4.30" data-parsed="1Kgs_4_30_0_0" data-passage="iKgs 4.30" id="iKgs.4.30"/><sup>30</sup>And Solomon's wisdom excelled the wisdom of all the children of the east, and all the wisdom of Egypt. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Kgs.4.31" data-parsed="1Kgs_4_31_0_0" data-passage="iKgs 4.31" id="iKgs.4.31"/><sup>31</sup>For he was wiser than all men; than Ethan the Ezrahite, and Heman, and Calcol, and Darda, the sons of Mahol: and his fame was in all the nations round about. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Kgs.4.32" data-parsed="1Kgs_4_32_0_0" data-passage="iKgs 4.32" id="iKgs.4.32"/><sup>32</sup>And he spake three thousand proverbs; and his songs were a thousand and five. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Kgs.4.33" data-parsed="1Kgs_4_33_0_0" data-passage="iKgs 4.33" id="iKgs.4.33"/><sup>33</sup>And he spake of trees, from the cedar that is in Lebanon even unto the hyssop that springeth out of the wall; he spake also of beasts, and of birds, and of creeping things, and of fishes. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Kgs.4.34" data-parsed="1Kgs_4_34_0_0" data-passage="iKgs 4.34" id="iKgs.4.34"/><sup>34</sup>And there came of all peoples to hear the wisdom of Solomon, from all kings of the earth, who had heard of his wisdom.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>