<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>1 Kings 15</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">1 Kings 15</span></div><div data-next="iKgs.16" data-prev="iKgs.14" data-progress="32.98%" data-shorttitle="" id="iKgs.15" title="1 Kings 15">
<h2 id="iKgs.15-p0.1">15</h2>
<p id="iKgs.15-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Kgs.15.1" data-parsed="1Kgs_15_1_0_0" data-passage="iKgs 15.1" id="iKgs.15.1"/><sup>1</sup>Now in the eighteenth year of king Jeroboam the son of Nebat began Abijam to reign over Judah. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Kgs.15.2" data-parsed="1Kgs_15_2_0_0" data-passage="iKgs 15.2" id="iKgs.15.2"/><sup>2</sup>Three years reigned he in Jerusalem: and his mother's name was Maacah the daughter of Abishalom. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Kgs.15.3" data-parsed="1Kgs_15_3_0_0" data-passage="iKgs 15.3" id="iKgs.15.3"/><sup>3</sup>And he walked in all the sins of his father, which he had done before him; and his heart was not perfect with Jehovah his God, as the heart of David his father.

<span data-osisref="Bible:1Kgs.15.4" data-parsed="1Kgs_15_4_0_0" data-passage="iKgs 15.4" id="iKgs.15.4"/><sup>4</sup>Nevertheless for David's sake did Jehovah his God give him a lamp in Jerusalem, to set up his son after him, and to establish Jerusalem;

<span data-osisref="Bible:1Kgs.15.5" data-parsed="1Kgs_15_5_0_0" data-passage="iKgs 15.5" id="iKgs.15.5"/><sup>5</sup>because David did that which was right in the eyes of Jehovah, and turned not aside from anything that he commanded him all the days of his life, save only in the matter of Uriah the Hittite. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Kgs.15.6" data-parsed="1Kgs_15_6_0_0" data-passage="iKgs 15.6" id="iKgs.15.6"/><sup>6</sup>Now there was war between Rehoboam and Jeroboam all the days of his life.</p>
<p id="iKgs.15-p2">
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Kgs.15.7" data-parsed="1Kgs_15_7_0_0" data-passage="iKgs 15.7" id="iKgs.15.7"/><sup>7</sup>And the rest of the acts of Abijam, and all that he did, are they not written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Judah? And there was war between Abijam and Jeroboam. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Kgs.15.8" data-parsed="1Kgs_15_8_0_0" data-passage="iKgs 15.8" id="iKgs.15.8"/><sup>8</sup>And Abijam slept with his fathers; and they buried him in the city of David: and Asa his son reigned in his stead.</p>
<p id="iKgs.15-p3">
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Kgs.15.9" data-parsed="1Kgs_15_9_0_0" data-passage="iKgs 15.9" id="iKgs.15.9"/><sup>9</sup>And in the twentieth year of Jeroboam king of Israel began Asa to reign over Judah. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Kgs.15.10" data-parsed="1Kgs_15_10_0_0" data-passage="iKgs 15.10" id="iKgs.15.10"/><sup>10</sup>And forty and one years reigned he in Jerusalem: and his mother's name was Maacah the daughter of Abishalom. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Kgs.15.11" data-parsed="1Kgs_15_11_0_0" data-passage="iKgs 15.11" id="iKgs.15.11"/><sup>11</sup>And Asa did that which was right in the eyes of Jehovah, as did David his father. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Kgs.15.12" data-parsed="1Kgs_15_12_0_0" data-passage="iKgs 15.12" id="iKgs.15.12"/><sup>12</sup>And he put away the sodomites out of the land, and removed all the idols that his fathers had made. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Kgs.15.13" data-parsed="1Kgs_15_13_0_0" data-passage="iKgs 15.13" id="iKgs.15.13"/><sup>13</sup>And also Maacah his mother he removed from being queen, because she had made an abominable image for an Asherah; and Asa cut down her image, and burnt it at the brook Kidron. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Kgs.15.14" data-parsed="1Kgs_15_14_0_0" data-passage="iKgs 15.14" id="iKgs.15.14"/><sup>14</sup>But the high places were not taken away: nevertheless the heart of Asa was perfect with Jehovah all his days. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Kgs.15.15" data-parsed="1Kgs_15_15_0_0" data-passage="iKgs 15.15" id="iKgs.15.15"/><sup>15</sup>And he brought into the house of Jehovah the things that his father had dedicated, and the things that himself had dedicated, silver,
and gold, and vessels.</p>
<p id="iKgs.15-p4">
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Kgs.15.16" data-parsed="1Kgs_15_16_0_0" data-passage="iKgs 15.16" id="iKgs.15.16"/><sup>16</sup>And there was war between Asa and Baasha king of Israel all their days.

<span data-osisref="Bible:1Kgs.15.17" data-parsed="1Kgs_15_17_0_0" data-passage="iKgs 15.17" id="iKgs.15.17"/><sup>17</sup>And Baasha king of Israel went up against Judah, and built Ramah, that he might not suffer any one to go out or come in to Asa king of Judah.

<span data-osisref="Bible:1Kgs.15.18" data-parsed="1Kgs_15_18_0_0" data-passage="iKgs 15.18" id="iKgs.15.18"/><sup>18</sup>Then Asa took all the silver and the gold that were left in the treasures of the house of Jehovah, and the treasures of the king's house, and delivered them into the hand of his servants; and king Asa sent them to Ben-hadad, the son of Tabrimmon, the son of Hezion, king of Syria, that dwelt at Damascus, saying, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Kgs.15.19" data-parsed="1Kgs_15_19_0_0" data-passage="iKgs 15.19" id="iKgs.15.19"/><sup>19</sup><i>There is</i> a league between me and thee,
between my father and thy father: behold, I have sent unto thee a present of silver and gold; go, break thy league with Baasha king of Israel, that he may depart from me. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Kgs.15.20" data-parsed="1Kgs_15_20_0_0" data-passage="iKgs 15.20" id="iKgs.15.20"/><sup>20</sup>And Ben-hadad hearkened unto king Asa, and sent the captains of his armies against the cities of Israel, and smote Ijon, and Dan,
and Abel-beth-maacah, and all Chinneroth, with all the land of Naphtali.

<span data-osisref="Bible:1Kgs.15.21" data-parsed="1Kgs_15_21_0_0" data-passage="iKgs 15.21" id="iKgs.15.21"/><sup>21</sup>And it came to pass, when Baasha heard thereof, that he left off building Ramah, and dwelt in Tirzah. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Kgs.15.22" data-parsed="1Kgs_15_22_0_0" data-passage="iKgs 15.22" id="iKgs.15.22"/><sup>22</sup>Then king Asa made a proclamation unto all Judah; none was exempted: and they carried away the stones of Ramah,
and the timber thereof, wherewith Baasha had builded; and king Asa built therewith Geba of Benjamin, and Mizpah.</p>
<p id="iKgs.15-p5">
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Kgs.15.23" data-parsed="1Kgs_15_23_0_0" data-passage="iKgs 15.23" id="iKgs.15.23"/><sup>23</sup>Now the rest of all the acts of Asa, and all his might, and all that he did, and the cities which he built, are they not written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Judah? But in the time of his old age he was diseased in his feet. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Kgs.15.24" data-parsed="1Kgs_15_24_0_0" data-passage="iKgs 15.24" id="iKgs.15.24"/><sup>24</sup>And Asa slept with his fathers, and was buried with his fathers in the city of David his father; and Jehoshaphat his son reigned in his stead.</p>
<p id="iKgs.15-p6">
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Kgs.15.25" data-parsed="1Kgs_15_25_0_0" data-passage="iKgs 15.25" id="iKgs.15.25"/><sup>25</sup>And Nadab the son of Jeroboam began to reign over Israel in the second year of Asa king of Judah; and he reigned over Israel two years. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Kgs.15.26" data-parsed="1Kgs_15_26_0_0" data-passage="iKgs 15.26" id="iKgs.15.26"/><sup>26</sup>And he did that which was evil in the sight of Jehovah, and walked in the way of his father, and in his sin wherewith he made Israel to sin. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Kgs.15.27" data-parsed="1Kgs_15_27_0_0" data-passage="iKgs 15.27" id="iKgs.15.27"/><sup>27</sup>And Baasha the son of Ahijah, of the house of Issachar, conspired against him; and Baasha smote him at Gibbethon, which belonged to the Philistines; for Nadab and all Israel were laying siege to Gibbethon. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Kgs.15.28" data-parsed="1Kgs_15_28_0_0" data-passage="iKgs 15.28" id="iKgs.15.28"/><sup>28</sup>Even in the third year of Asa king of Judah did Baasha slay him, and reigned in his stead. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Kgs.15.29" data-parsed="1Kgs_15_29_0_0" data-passage="iKgs 15.29" id="iKgs.15.29"/><sup>29</sup>And it came to pass that, as soon as he was king, he smote all the house of Jeroboam: he left not to Jeroboam any that breathed, until he had destroyed him; according unto the saying of Jehovah, which he spake by his servant Ahijah the Shilonite; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Kgs.15.30" data-parsed="1Kgs_15_30_0_0" data-passage="iKgs 15.30" id="iKgs.15.30"/><sup>30</sup>for the sins of Jeroboam which he sinned, and wherewith he made Israel to sin, because of his provocation wherewith he provoked Jehovah, the God of Israel, to anger.</p>
<p id="iKgs.15-p7">
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Kgs.15.31" data-parsed="1Kgs_15_31_0_0" data-passage="iKgs 15.31" id="iKgs.15.31"/><sup>31</sup>Now the rest of the acts of Nadab, and all that he did, are they not written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Israel? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Kgs.15.32" data-parsed="1Kgs_15_32_0_0" data-passage="iKgs 15.32" id="iKgs.15.32"/><sup>32</sup>And there was war between Asa and Baasha king of Israel all their days.</p>
<p id="iKgs.15-p8">
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Kgs.15.33" data-parsed="1Kgs_15_33_0_0" data-passage="iKgs 15.33" id="iKgs.15.33"/><sup>33</sup>In the third year of Asa king of Judah began Baasha the son of Ahijah to reign over all Israel in Tirzah, <i>and reigned</i> twenty and four years. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Kgs.15.34" data-parsed="1Kgs_15_34_0_0" data-passage="iKgs 15.34" id="iKgs.15.34"/><sup>34</sup>And he did that which was evil in the sight of Jehovah, and walked in the way of Jeroboam, and in his sin wherewith he made Israel to sin.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>