<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>1 Kings 10</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">1 Kings 10</span></div><div data-next="iKgs.11" data-prev="iKgs.9" data-progress="32.34%" data-shorttitle="" id="iKgs.10" title="1 Kings 10">
<h2 id="iKgs.10-p0.1">10</h2>
<p id="iKgs.10-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Kgs.10.1" data-parsed="1Kgs_10_1_0_0" data-passage="iKgs 10.1" id="iKgs.10.1"/><sup>1</sup>And when the queen of Sheba heard of the fame of Solomon concerning the name of Jehovah, she came to prove him with hard questions.

<span data-osisref="Bible:1Kgs.10.2" data-parsed="1Kgs_10_2_0_0" data-passage="iKgs 10.2" id="iKgs.10.2"/><sup>2</sup>And she came to Jerusalem with a very great train, with camels that bare spices, and very much gold, and precious stones; and when she was come to Solomon, she communed with him of all that was in her heart. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Kgs.10.3" data-parsed="1Kgs_10_3_0_0" data-passage="iKgs 10.3" id="iKgs.10.3"/><sup>3</sup>And Solomon told her all her questions: there was not anything hid from the king which he told her not. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Kgs.10.4" data-parsed="1Kgs_10_4_0_0" data-passage="iKgs 10.4" id="iKgs.10.4"/><sup>4</sup>And when the queen of Sheba had seen all the wisdom of Solomon, and the house that he had built, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Kgs.10.5" data-parsed="1Kgs_10_5_0_0" data-passage="iKgs 10.5" id="iKgs.10.5"/><sup>5</sup>and the food of his table, and the sitting of his servants, and the attendance of his ministers, and their apparel, and his cupbearers, and his ascent by which he went up unto the house of Jehovah; there was no more spirit in her. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Kgs.10.6" data-parsed="1Kgs_10_6_0_0" data-passage="iKgs 10.6" id="iKgs.10.6"/><sup>6</sup>And she said to the king, It was a true report that I heard in mine own land of thine acts, and of thy wisdom. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Kgs.10.7" data-parsed="1Kgs_10_7_0_0" data-passage="iKgs 10.7" id="iKgs.10.7"/><sup>7</sup>Howbeit I believed not the words, until I came, and mine eyes had seen it: and, behold, the half was not told me; thy wisdom and prosperity exceed the fame which I heard. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Kgs.10.8" data-parsed="1Kgs_10_8_0_0" data-passage="iKgs 10.8" id="iKgs.10.8"/><sup>8</sup>Happy are thy men, happy are these thy servants, that stand continually before thee, <i>and</i> that hear thy wisdom. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Kgs.10.9" data-parsed="1Kgs_10_9_0_0" data-passage="iKgs 10.9" id="iKgs.10.9"/><sup>9</sup>Blessed be Jehovah thy God, who delighted in thee, to set thee on the throne of Israel: because Jehovah loved Israel for ever,
therefore made he thee king, to do justice and righteousness. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Kgs.10.10" data-parsed="1Kgs_10_10_0_0" data-passage="iKgs 10.10" id="iKgs.10.10"/><sup>10</sup>And she gave the king a hundred and twenty talents of gold, and of spices very great store, and precious stones: there came no more such abundance of spices as these which the queen of Sheba gave to king Solomon.</p>
<p id="iKgs.10-p2">
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Kgs.10.11" data-parsed="1Kgs_10_11_0_0" data-passage="iKgs 10.11" id="iKgs.10.11"/><sup>11</sup>And the navy also of Hiram, that brought gold from Ophir, brought in from Ophir great plenty of almug-trees and precious stones. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Kgs.10.12" data-parsed="1Kgs_10_12_0_0" data-passage="iKgs 10.12" id="iKgs.10.12"/><sup>12</sup>And the king made of the almug-trees pillars for the house of Jehovah, and for the king's house, harps also and psalteries for the singers: there came no such almug-trees, nor were seen, unto this day.</p>
<p id="iKgs.10-p3">
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Kgs.10.13" data-parsed="1Kgs_10_13_0_0" data-passage="iKgs 10.13" id="iKgs.10.13"/><sup>13</sup>And king Solomon gave to the queen of Sheba all her desire, whatsoever she asked, besides that which Solomon gave her of his royal bounty. So she turned, and went to her own land, she and her servants.</p>
<p id="iKgs.10-p4">
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Kgs.10.14" data-parsed="1Kgs_10_14_0_0" data-passage="iKgs 10.14" id="iKgs.10.14"/><sup>14</sup>Now the weight of gold that came to Solomon in one year was six hundred threescore and six talents of gold, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Kgs.10.15" data-parsed="1Kgs_10_15_0_0" data-passage="iKgs 10.15" id="iKgs.10.15"/><sup>15</sup>besides <i>that which</i> the traders <i>brought</i>, and the traffic of the merchants, and of all the kings of the mingled people, and of the governors of the country. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Kgs.10.16" data-parsed="1Kgs_10_16_0_0" data-passage="iKgs 10.16" id="iKgs.10.16"/><sup>16</sup>And king Solomon made two hundred bucklers of beaten gold; six hundred <i>shekels</i> of gold went to one buckler. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Kgs.10.17" data-parsed="1Kgs_10_17_0_0" data-passage="iKgs 10.17" id="iKgs.10.17"/><sup>17</sup>And <i>he made</i> three hundred shields of beaten gold; three pounds of gold went to one shield: and the king put them in the house of the forest of Lebanon. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Kgs.10.18" data-parsed="1Kgs_10_18_0_0" data-passage="iKgs 10.18" id="iKgs.10.18"/><sup>18</sup>Moreover the king made a great throne of ivory, and overlaid it with the finest gold.

<span data-osisref="Bible:1Kgs.10.19" data-parsed="1Kgs_10_19_0_0" data-passage="iKgs 10.19" id="iKgs.10.19"/><sup>19</sup>There were six steps to the throne, and the top of the throne was round behind; and there were stays on either side by the place of the seat, and two lions standing beside the stays. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Kgs.10.20" data-parsed="1Kgs_10_20_0_0" data-passage="iKgs 10.20" id="iKgs.10.20"/><sup>20</sup>And twelve lions stood there on the one side and on the other upon the six steps: there was not the like made in any kingdom. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Kgs.10.21" data-parsed="1Kgs_10_21_0_0" data-passage="iKgs 10.21" id="iKgs.10.21"/><sup>21</sup>And all king Solomon's drinking vessels were of gold, and all the vessels of the house of the forest of Lebanon were of pure gold: none were of silver; it was nothing accounted of in the days of Solomon. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Kgs.10.22" data-parsed="1Kgs_10_22_0_0" data-passage="iKgs 10.22" id="iKgs.10.22"/><sup>22</sup>For the king had at sea a navy of Tarshish with the navy of Hiram: once every three years came the navy of Tarshish, bringing gold, and silver, ivory, and apes, and peacocks.</p>
<p id="iKgs.10-p5">
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Kgs.10.23" data-parsed="1Kgs_10_23_0_0" data-passage="iKgs 10.23" id="iKgs.10.23"/><sup>23</sup>So king Solomon exceeded all the kings of the earth in riches and in wisdom. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Kgs.10.24" data-parsed="1Kgs_10_24_0_0" data-passage="iKgs 10.24" id="iKgs.10.24"/><sup>24</sup>And all the earth sought the presence of Solomon, to hear his wisdom, which God had put in his heart. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Kgs.10.25" data-parsed="1Kgs_10_25_0_0" data-passage="iKgs 10.25" id="iKgs.10.25"/><sup>25</sup>And they brought every man his tribute, vessels of silver, and vessels of gold, and raiment, and armor, and spices, horses, and mules, a rate year by year.</p>
<p id="iKgs.10-p6">
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Kgs.10.26" data-parsed="1Kgs_10_26_0_0" data-passage="iKgs 10.26" id="iKgs.10.26"/><sup>26</sup>And Solomon gathered together chariots and horsemen: and he had a thousand and four hundred chariots, and twelve thousand horsemen, that he bestowed in the chariot cities, and with the king at Jerusalem. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Kgs.10.27" data-parsed="1Kgs_10_27_0_0" data-passage="iKgs 10.27" id="iKgs.10.27"/><sup>27</sup>And the king made silver to be in Jerusalem as stones, and cedars made he to be as the sycomore-trees that are in the lowland, for abundance. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Kgs.10.28" data-parsed="1Kgs_10_28_0_0" data-passage="iKgs 10.28" id="iKgs.10.28"/><sup>28</sup>And the horses which Solomon had were brought out of Egypt; and the king's merchants received them in droves, each drove at a price. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Kgs.10.29" data-parsed="1Kgs_10_29_0_0" data-passage="iKgs 10.29" id="iKgs.10.29"/><sup>29</sup>And a chariot came up and went out of Egypt for six hundred <i>shekels</i> of silver, and a horse for a hundred and fifty; and so for all the kings of the Hittites, and for the kings of Syria, did they bring them out by their means.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>