<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>1 Peter 2</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">1 Peter 2</span></div><div data-next="iPet.3" data-prev="iPet.1" data-progress="97.60%" data-shorttitle="" id="iPet.2" title="1 Peter 2">
<h2 id="iPet.2-p0.1">2</h2>
<p id="iPet.2-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Pet.2.1" data-parsed="1Pet_2_1_0_0" data-passage="iPet 2.1" id="iPet.2.1"/><sup>1</sup>Putting away therefore all wickedness, and all guile, and hypocrisies, and envies, and all evil speakings, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Pet.2.2" data-parsed="1Pet_2_2_0_0" data-passage="iPet 2.2" id="iPet.2.2"/><sup>2</sup>as newborn babes, long for the spiritual milk which is without guile, that ye may grow thereby unto salvation; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Pet.2.3" data-parsed="1Pet_2_3_0_0" data-passage="iPet 2.3" id="iPet.2.3"/><sup>3</sup>if ye have tasted that the Lord is gracious: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Pet.2.4" data-parsed="1Pet_2_4_0_0" data-passage="iPet 2.4" id="iPet.2.4"/><sup>4</sup>unto whom coming, a living stone, rejected indeed of men, but with God elect, precious,

<span data-osisref="Bible:1Pet.2.5" data-parsed="1Pet_2_5_0_0" data-passage="iPet 2.5" id="iPet.2.5"/><sup>5</sup>ye also, as living stones, are built up a spiritual house, to be a holy priesthood, to offer up spiritual sacrifices, acceptable to God through Jesus Christ. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Pet.2.6" data-parsed="1Pet_2_6_0_0" data-passage="iPet 2.6" id="iPet.2.6"/><sup>6</sup>Because it is contained in span,</p>
<p class="poetry" id="iPet.2-p2">
Behold, I lay in Zion a chief corner stone, elect, precious:</p>
<p class="poetry" id="iPet.2-p3">
And he that believeth on him shall not be put to shame.</p>
<p id="iPet.2-p4">
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Pet.2.7" data-parsed="1Pet_2_7_0_0" data-passage="iPet 2.7" id="iPet.2.7"/><sup>7</sup>For you therefore that believe is the preciousness: but for such as disbelieve,</p>
<p class="poetry" id="iPet.2-p5">
The stone which the builders rejected,</p>
<p class="poetry" id="iPet.2-p6">
The same was made the head of the corner;</p>
<p id="iPet.2-p7">
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Pet.2.8" data-parsed="1Pet_2_8_0_0" data-passage="iPet 2.8" id="iPet.2.8"/><sup>8</sup>and,</p>
<p class="poetry" id="iPet.2-p8">
A stone of stumbling, and a rock of offence;</p>
<p id="iPet.2-p9">
for they stumble at the word, being disobedient: whereunto also they were appointed. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Pet.2.9" data-parsed="1Pet_2_9_0_0" data-passage="iPet 2.9" id="iPet.2.9"/><sup>9</sup>But ye are a elect race, a royal priesthood, a holy nation, a people for <i>God's</i> own possession, that ye may show forth the excellencies of him who called you out of darkness into his marvellous light:

<span data-osisref="Bible:1Pet.2.10" data-parsed="1Pet_2_10_0_0" data-passage="iPet 2.10" id="iPet.2.10"/><sup>10</sup>who in time past were no people, but now are the people of God: who had not obtained mercy, but now have obtained mercy. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Pet.2.11" data-parsed="1Pet_2_11_0_0" data-passage="iPet 2.11" id="iPet.2.11"/><sup>11</sup>Beloved, I beseech you as sojourners and pilgrims, to abstain from fleshly lust, which war against the soul; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Pet.2.12" data-parsed="1Pet_2_12_0_0" data-passage="iPet 2.12" id="iPet.2.12"/><sup>12</sup>having your behavior seemly among the Gentiles; that, wherein they speak against you as evil-doers, they may by your good works, which they behold, glorify God in the day of visitation. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Pet.2.13" data-parsed="1Pet_2_13_0_0" data-passage="iPet 2.13" id="iPet.2.13"/><sup>13</sup>Be subject to every ordinance of man for the Lord's sake: whether to the king, as supreme;

<span data-osisref="Bible:1Pet.2.14" data-parsed="1Pet_2_14_0_0" data-passage="iPet 2.14" id="iPet.2.14"/><sup>14</sup>or unto governors, as sent by him for vengeance on evil-doers and for praise to them that do well. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Pet.2.15" data-parsed="1Pet_2_15_0_0" data-passage="iPet 2.15" id="iPet.2.15"/><sup>15</sup>For so is the will of God, that by well-doing ye should put to silence the ignorance of foolish men: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Pet.2.16" data-parsed="1Pet_2_16_0_0" data-passage="iPet 2.16" id="iPet.2.16"/><sup>16</sup>as free, and not using your freedom for a cloak of wickedness, but as bondservants of God. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Pet.2.17" data-parsed="1Pet_2_17_0_0" data-passage="iPet 2.17" id="iPet.2.17"/><sup>17</sup>Honor all men. Love the brotherhood. Fear God.
Honor the king. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Pet.2.18" data-parsed="1Pet_2_18_0_0" data-passage="iPet 2.18" id="iPet.2.18"/><sup>18</sup>Servants, <i>be</i> in subjection to your masters with all fear; not only to the good and gentle, but also to the froward. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Pet.2.19" data-parsed="1Pet_2_19_0_0" data-passage="iPet 2.19" id="iPet.2.19"/><sup>19</sup>For this is acceptable, if for conscience toward God a man endureth griefs,
suffering wrongfully. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Pet.2.20" data-parsed="1Pet_2_20_0_0" data-passage="iPet 2.20" id="iPet.2.20"/><sup>20</sup>For what glory is it, if, when ye sin, and are buffeted <i>for it</i>, ye shall take it patiently? but if, when ye do well,
and suffer <i>for it</i>, ye shall take it patiently, this is acceptable with God. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Pet.2.21" data-parsed="1Pet_2_21_0_0" data-passage="iPet 2.21" id="iPet.2.21"/><sup>21</sup>For hereunto were ye called: because Christ also suffered for you, leaving you an example, that ye should follow his steps: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Pet.2.22" data-parsed="1Pet_2_22_0_0" data-passage="iPet 2.22" id="iPet.2.22"/><sup>22</sup>who did no sin, neither was guile found in his mouth: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Pet.2.23" data-parsed="1Pet_2_23_0_0" data-passage="iPet 2.23" id="iPet.2.23"/><sup>23</sup>who, when he was reviled,
reviled not again; when he suffered threatened not; but committed <i>himself</i> to him that judgeth righteously: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Pet.2.24" data-parsed="1Pet_2_24_0_0" data-passage="iPet 2.24" id="iPet.2.24"/><sup>24</sup>who his own self bare our sins in his body upon the tree, that we, having died unto sins, might live unto righteousness; by whose stripes ye were healed. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Pet.2.25" data-parsed="1Pet_2_25_0_0" data-passage="iPet 2.25" id="iPet.2.25"/><sup>25</sup>For ye were going astray like sheep; but are now returned unto the Shepherd and Bishop of your souls.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>