<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>1 Peter 3</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">1 Peter 3</span></div><div data-next="iPet.4" data-prev="iPet.2" data-progress="97.67%" data-shorttitle="" id="iPet.3" title="1 Peter 3">
<h2 id="iPet.3-p0.1">3</h2>
<p id="iPet.3-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Pet.3.1" data-parsed="1Pet_3_1_0_0" data-passage="iPet 3.1" id="iPet.3.1"/><sup>1</sup>In like manner, ye wives, <i>be</i> in subjection to your own husbands; that, even if any obey not the word, they may without the word be gained by the behavior of their wives; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Pet.3.2" data-parsed="1Pet_3_2_0_0" data-passage="iPet 3.2" id="iPet.3.2"/><sup>2</sup>beholding your chaste behavior <i>coupled</i> with fear. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Pet.3.3" data-parsed="1Pet_3_3_0_0" data-passage="iPet 3.3" id="iPet.3.3"/><sup>3</sup>Whose <i>adorning</i> let it not be the outward adorning of braiding the hair, and of wearing jewels of gold, or of putting on apparel; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Pet.3.4" data-parsed="1Pet_3_4_0_0" data-passage="iPet 3.4" id="iPet.3.4"/><sup>4</sup>but <i>let it be</i> the hidden man of the heart,
in the incorruptible <i>apparel</i> of a meek and quiet spirit, which is in the sight of God of great price. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Pet.3.5" data-parsed="1Pet_3_5_0_0" data-passage="iPet 3.5" id="iPet.3.5"/><sup>5</sup>For after this manner aforetime the holy women also, who hoped in God, adorned themselves, being in subjection to their own husbands: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Pet.3.6" data-parsed="1Pet_3_6_0_0" data-passage="iPet 3.6" id="iPet.3.6"/><sup>6</sup>as Sarah obeyed Abraham, calling him lord: whose children ye now are, if ye do well, and are not put in fear by any terror.

<span data-osisref="Bible:1Pet.3.7" data-parsed="1Pet_3_7_0_0" data-passage="iPet 3.7" id="iPet.3.7"/><sup>7</sup>Ye husbands, in like manner, dwell with <i>your wives</i> according to knowledge, giving honor unto the woman, as unto the weaker vessel, as being also joint-heirs of the grace of life; to the end that your prayers be not hindered. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Pet.3.8" data-parsed="1Pet_3_8_0_0" data-passage="iPet 3.8" id="iPet.3.8"/><sup>8</sup>Finally, <i>be</i> ye all likeminded, compassionate, loving as brethren, tenderhearted, humbleminded: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Pet.3.9" data-parsed="1Pet_3_9_0_0" data-passage="iPet 3.9" id="iPet.3.9"/><sup>9</sup>not rendering evil for evil,
or reviling for reviling; but contrariwise blessing; for hereunto were ye called, that ye should inherit a blessing. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Pet.3.10" data-parsed="1Pet_3_10_0_0" data-passage="iPet 3.10" id="iPet.3.10"/><sup>10</sup>For,</p>
<p class="poetry" id="iPet.3-p2">
He that would love life,</p>
<p class="poetry" id="iPet.3-p3">
And see good days,</p>
<p class="poetry" id="iPet.3-p4">
Let him refrain his tongue from evil,</p>
<p class="poetry" id="iPet.3-p5">
And his lips that they speak no guile:</p>
<p class="poetry" id="iPet.3-p6">
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Pet.3.11" data-parsed="1Pet_3_11_0_0" data-passage="iPet 3.11" id="iPet.3.11"/><sup>11</sup>And let him turn away from evil, and do good;</p>
<p class="poetry" id="iPet.3-p7">
Let him seek peace, and pursue it.</p>
<p class="poetry" id="iPet.3-p8">
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Pet.3.12" data-parsed="1Pet_3_12_0_0" data-passage="iPet 3.12" id="iPet.3.12"/><sup>12</sup>For the eyes of the Lord are upon the righteous,</p>
<p class="poetry" id="iPet.3-p9">
And his ears unto their supplication:</p>
<p class="poetry" id="iPet.3-p10">
But the face of the Lord is upon them that do evil.</p>
<p id="iPet.3-p11">
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Pet.3.13" data-parsed="1Pet_3_13_0_0" data-passage="iPet 3.13" id="iPet.3.13"/><sup>13</sup>And who is he that will harm you, if ye be zealous of that which is good? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Pet.3.14" data-parsed="1Pet_3_14_0_0" data-passage="iPet 3.14" id="iPet.3.14"/><sup>14</sup>But even if ye should suffer for righteousness' sake, blessed <i>are ye:</i> and fear not their fear, neither be troubled; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Pet.3.15" data-parsed="1Pet_3_15_0_0" data-passage="iPet 3.15" id="iPet.3.15"/><sup>15</sup>but sanctify in your hearts Christ as Lord: <i>being</i> ready always to give answer to every man that asketh you a reason concerning the hope that is in you, yet with meekness and fear: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Pet.3.16" data-parsed="1Pet_3_16_0_0" data-passage="iPet 3.16" id="iPet.3.16"/><sup>16</sup>having a good conscience; that,
wherein ye are spoken against, they may be put to shame who revile your good manner of life in Christ. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Pet.3.17" data-parsed="1Pet_3_17_0_0" data-passage="iPet 3.17" id="iPet.3.17"/><sup>17</sup>For it is better, if the will of God should so will, that ye suffer for well-doing than for evil-doing. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Pet.3.18" data-parsed="1Pet_3_18_0_0" data-passage="iPet 3.18" id="iPet.3.18"/><sup>18</sup>Because Christ also suffered for sins once, the righteous for the unrighteous, that he might bring us to God; being put to death in the flesh, but made alive in the spirit; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Pet.3.19" data-parsed="1Pet_3_19_0_0" data-passage="iPet 3.19" id="iPet.3.19"/><sup>19</sup>in which also he went and preached unto the spirits in prison, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Pet.3.20" data-parsed="1Pet_3_20_0_0" data-passage="iPet 3.20" id="iPet.3.20"/><sup>20</sup>that aforetime were disobedient, when the longsuffering of God waited in the days of Noah, while the ark was a preparing, wherein few, that is, eight souls, were saved through water: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Pet.3.21" data-parsed="1Pet_3_21_0_0" data-passage="iPet 3.21" id="iPet.3.21"/><sup>21</sup>which also after a true likeness doth now save you, <i>even</i> baptism, not the putting away of the filth of the flesh, but the interrogation of a good conscience toward God,
through the resurrection of Jesus Christ; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Pet.3.22" data-parsed="1Pet_3_22_0_0" data-passage="iPet 3.22" id="iPet.3.22"/><sup>22</sup>who is one the right hand of God, having gone into heaven; angels and authorities and powers being made subject unto him.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>