<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>1 Peter 5</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">1 Peter 5</span></div><div data-next="iiPet" data-prev="iPet.4" data-progress="97.80%" data-shorttitle="" id="iPet.5" title="1 Peter 5">
<h2 id="iPet.5-p0.1">5</h2>
<p id="iPet.5-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Pet.5.1" data-parsed="1Pet_5_1_0_0" data-passage="iPet 5.1" id="iPet.5.1"/><sup>1</sup>The elders among you I exhort, who am a fellow-elder, and a witness of the sufferings of Christ, who am also a partaker of the glory that shall be revealed: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Pet.5.2" data-parsed="1Pet_5_2_0_0" data-passage="iPet 5.2" id="iPet.5.2"/><sup>2</sup>Tend the flock of God which is among you, exercising the oversight, not of constraint, but willingly, according to <i>the will of</i>
God; nor yet for filthy lucre, but of a ready mind; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Pet.5.3" data-parsed="1Pet_5_3_0_0" data-passage="iPet 5.3" id="iPet.5.3"/><sup>3</sup>neither as lording it over the charge allotted to you, but making yourselves ensamples to the flock. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Pet.5.4" data-parsed="1Pet_5_4_0_0" data-passage="iPet 5.4" id="iPet.5.4"/><sup>4</sup>And when the chief Shepherd shall be manifested, ye shall receive the crown of glory that fadeth not away. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Pet.5.5" data-parsed="1Pet_5_5_0_0" data-passage="iPet 5.5" id="iPet.5.5"/><sup>5</sup>Likewise, ye younger, be subject unto the elder. Yea, all of you gird yourselves with humility, to serve one another: for God resisteth the proud, but giveth grace to the humble. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Pet.5.6" data-parsed="1Pet_5_6_0_0" data-passage="iPet 5.6" id="iPet.5.6"/><sup>6</sup>Humble yourselves therefore under the mighty hand of God, that he may exalt you in due time; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Pet.5.7" data-parsed="1Pet_5_7_0_0" data-passage="iPet 5.7" id="iPet.5.7"/><sup>7</sup>casting all your anxiety upon him, because he careth for you. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Pet.5.8" data-parsed="1Pet_5_8_0_0" data-passage="iPet 5.8" id="iPet.5.8"/><sup>8</sup>Be sober, be watchful: your adversary the devil, as a roaring lion, walketh about, seeking whom he may devour, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Pet.5.9" data-parsed="1Pet_5_9_0_0" data-passage="iPet 5.9" id="iPet.5.9"/><sup>9</sup>whom withstand stedfast in your faith, knowing that the same sufferings are accomplished in your brethren who are in the world. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Pet.5.10" data-parsed="1Pet_5_10_0_0" data-passage="iPet 5.10" id="iPet.5.10"/><sup>10</sup>And the God of all grace, who called you unto his eternal glory in Christ, after that ye have suffered a little while, shall himself perfect, establish, strengthen you. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Pet.5.11" data-parsed="1Pet_5_11_0_0" data-passage="iPet 5.11" id="iPet.5.11"/><sup>11</sup>To him <i>be</i> the dominion for ever and ever. Amen. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Pet.5.12" data-parsed="1Pet_5_12_0_0" data-passage="iPet 5.12" id="iPet.5.12"/><sup>12</sup>By Silvanus, our faithful brother, as I account <i>him</i>, I have written unto you briefly,
exhorting, and testifying that this is the true grace of God. Stand ye fast therein. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Pet.5.13" data-parsed="1Pet_5_13_0_0" data-passage="iPet 5.13" id="iPet.5.13"/><sup>13</sup>She that is in Babylon, elect together with <i>you</i>,
saluteth you; and <i>so doth</i> Mark my son. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Pet.5.14" data-parsed="1Pet_5_14_0_0" data-passage="iPet 5.14" id="iPet.5.14"/><sup>14</sup>Salute one another with a kiss of love. Peace be unto you all that are in Christ.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>