<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Isaiah 19</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Isaiah 19</span></div><div data-next="Isa.20" data-prev="Isa.18" data-progress="58.11%" data-shorttitle="" id="Isa.19" title="Isaiah 19">
<h2 id="Isa.19-p0.1">19</h2>
<p id="Isa.19-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.19.1" data-parsed="Isa_19_1_0_0" data-passage="Isa 19.1" id="Isa.19.1"/><sup>1</sup>The burden of Egypt. Behold, Jehovah rideth upon a swift cloud,
and cometh unto Egypt: and the idols of Egypt shall tremble at his presence;
and the heart of Egypt shall melt in the midst of it. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.19.2" data-parsed="Isa_19_2_0_0" data-passage="Isa 19.2" id="Isa.19.2"/><sup>2</sup>And I will stir up the Egyptians against the Egyptians: and they shall fight every one against his brother, and every one against his neighbor; city against city,
<i>and</i> kingdom against kingdom. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.19.3" data-parsed="Isa_19_3_0_0" data-passage="Isa 19.3" id="Isa.19.3"/><sup>3</sup>And the spirit of Egypt shall fail in the midst of it; and I will destroy the counsel thereof: and they shall seek unto the idols, and to the charmers, and to them that have familiar spirits, and to the wizards. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.19.4" data-parsed="Isa_19_4_0_0" data-passage="Isa 19.4" id="Isa.19.4"/><sup>4</sup>And I will give over the Egyptians into the hand of a cruel lord; and a fierce king shall rule over them, saith the Lord,
Jehovah of hosts. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.19.5" data-parsed="Isa_19_5_0_0" data-passage="Isa 19.5" id="Isa.19.5"/><sup>5</sup>And the waters shall fail from the sea, and the river shall be wasted and become dry. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.19.6" data-parsed="Isa_19_6_0_0" data-passage="Isa 19.6" id="Isa.19.6"/><sup>6</sup>And the rivers shall become foul; the streams of Egypt shall be diminished and dried up; the reeds and flags shall wither away. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.19.7" data-parsed="Isa_19_7_0_0" data-passage="Isa 19.7" id="Isa.19.7"/><sup>7</sup>The meadows by the Nile, by the brink of the Nile, and all the sown fields of the Nile, shall become dry, be driven away, and be no more. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.19.8" data-parsed="Isa_19_8_0_0" data-passage="Isa 19.8" id="Isa.19.8"/><sup>8</sup>And the fishers shall lament, and all they that cast angle into the Nile shall mourn, and they that spread nets upon the waters shall languish. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.19.9" data-parsed="Isa_19_9_0_0" data-passage="Isa 19.9" id="Isa.19.9"/><sup>9</sup>Moreover they that work in combed flax, and they that weave white cloth, shall be confounded. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.19.10" data-parsed="Isa_19_10_0_0" data-passage="Isa 19.10" id="Isa.19.10"/><sup>10</sup>And the pillars <i>of Egypt</i>
shall be broken in pieces; all they that work for hire <i>shall be</i>
grieved in soul. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.19.11" data-parsed="Isa_19_11_0_0" data-passage="Isa 19.11" id="Isa.19.11"/><sup>11</sup>The princes of Zoan are utterly foolish; the counsel of the wisest counsellors of Pharaoh is become brutish: how say ye unto Pharaoh, I am the son of the wise, the son of ancient kings? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.19.12" data-parsed="Isa_19_12_0_0" data-passage="Isa 19.12" id="Isa.19.12"/><sup>12</sup>Where then are thy wise men? and let them tell thee now; and let them know what Jehovah of hosts hath purposed concerning Egypt. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.19.13" data-parsed="Isa_19_13_0_0" data-passage="Isa 19.13" id="Isa.19.13"/><sup>13</sup>The princes of Zoan are become fools, the princes of Memphis are deceived; they have caused Egypt to go astray, that are the corner-stone of her tribes. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.19.14" data-parsed="Isa_19_14_0_0" data-passage="Isa 19.14" id="Isa.19.14"/><sup>14</sup>Jehovah hath mingled a spirit of perverseness in the midst of her; and they have caused Egypt to go astray in every work thereof, as a drunken man staggereth in his vomit.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.19.15" data-parsed="Isa_19_15_0_0" data-passage="Isa 19.15" id="Isa.19.15"/><sup>15</sup>Neither shall there be for Egypt any work, which head or tail,
palm-branch or rush, may do. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.19.16" data-parsed="Isa_19_16_0_0" data-passage="Isa 19.16" id="Isa.19.16"/><sup>16</sup>In that day shall the Egyptians be like unto women; and they shall tremble and fear because of the shaking of the hand of Jehovah of hosts, which he shaketh over them. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.19.17" data-parsed="Isa_19_17_0_0" data-passage="Isa 19.17" id="Isa.19.17"/><sup>17</sup>And the land of Judah shall become a terror unto Egypt; every one to whom mention is made thereof shall be afraid, because of the purpose of Jehovah of hosts, which he purposeth against it. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.19.18" data-parsed="Isa_19_18_0_0" data-passage="Isa 19.18" id="Isa.19.18"/><sup>18</sup>In that day there shall be five cities in the land of Egypt that speak the language of Canaan, and swear to Jehovah of hosts; one shall be called The city of destruction. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.19.19" data-parsed="Isa_19_19_0_0" data-passage="Isa 19.19" id="Isa.19.19"/><sup>19</sup>In that day shall there be an altar to Jehovah in the midst of the land of Egypt, and a pillar at the border thereof to Jehovah. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.19.20" data-parsed="Isa_19_20_0_0" data-passage="Isa 19.20" id="Isa.19.20"/><sup>20</sup>And it shall be for a sign and for a witness unto Jehovah of hosts in the land of Egypt; for they shall cry unto Jehovah because of oppressors, and he will send them a saviour, and a defender, and he will deliver them. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.19.21" data-parsed="Isa_19_21_0_0" data-passage="Isa 19.21" id="Isa.19.21"/><sup>21</sup>And Jehovah shall be known to Egypt, and the Egyptians shall know Jehovah in that day; yea, they shall worship with sacrifice and oblation, and shall vow a vow unto Jehovah, and shall perform it. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.19.22" data-parsed="Isa_19_22_0_0" data-passage="Isa 19.22" id="Isa.19.22"/><sup>22</sup>And Jehovah will smite Egypt, smiting and healing;
and they shall return unto Jehovah, and he will be entreated of them, and will heal them. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.19.23" data-parsed="Isa_19_23_0_0" data-passage="Isa 19.23" id="Isa.19.23"/><sup>23</sup>In that day shall there be a highway out of Egypt to Assyria, and the Assyrian shall come into Egypt, and the Egyptian into Assyria; and the Egyptians shall worship with the Assyrians. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.19.24" data-parsed="Isa_19_24_0_0" data-passage="Isa 19.24" id="Isa.19.24"/><sup>24</sup>In that day shall Israel be the third with Egypt and with Assyria, a blessing in the midst of the earth; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.19.25" data-parsed="Isa_19_25_0_0" data-passage="Isa 19.25" id="Isa.19.25"/><sup>25</sup>for that Jehovah of hosts hath blessed them,
saying, Blessed be Egypt my people, and Assyria the work of my hands, and Israel mine inheritance.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>