<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Isaiah 15</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Isaiah 15</span></div><div data-next="Isa.16" data-prev="Isa.14" data-progress="57.94%" data-shorttitle="" id="Isa.15" title="Isaiah 15">
<h2 id="Isa.15-p0.1">15</h2>
<p id="Isa.15-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.15.1" data-parsed="Isa_15_1_0_0" data-passage="Isa 15.1" id="Isa.15.1"/><sup>1</sup>The burden of Moab. For in a night Ar of Moab is laid waste,
<i>and</i> brought to nought; for in a night Kir of Moab is laid waste,
<i>and</i> brought to nought. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.15.2" data-parsed="Isa_15_2_0_0" data-passage="Isa 15.2" id="Isa.15.2"/><sup>2</sup>They are gone up to Bayith, and to Dibon,
to the high places, to weep: Moab waileth over Nebo, and over Medeba; on all their heads is baldness, every beard is cut off. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.15.3" data-parsed="Isa_15_3_0_0" data-passage="Isa 15.3" id="Isa.15.3"/><sup>3</sup>In their streets they gird themselves with sackcloth; on their housetops, and in their broad places, every one waileth, weeping abundantly. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.15.4" data-parsed="Isa_15_4_0_0" data-passage="Isa 15.4" id="Isa.15.4"/><sup>4</sup>And Heshbon crieth out,
and Elealeh; their voice is heard even unto Jahaz: therefore the armed men of Moab cry aloud; his soul trembleth within him. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.15.5" data-parsed="Isa_15_5_0_0" data-passage="Isa 15.5" id="Isa.15.5"/><sup>5</sup>My heart crieth out for Moab; her nobles <i>flee</i> unto Zoar, to Eglath-shelishi-yah: for by the ascent of Luhith with weeping they go up; for in the way of Horonaim they raise up a cry of destruction. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.15.6" data-parsed="Isa_15_6_0_0" data-passage="Isa 15.6" id="Isa.15.6"/><sup>6</sup>For the waters of Nimrim shall be desolate; for the grass is withered away, the tender grass faileth, there is no green thing. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.15.7" data-parsed="Isa_15_7_0_0" data-passage="Isa 15.7" id="Isa.15.7"/><sup>7</sup>Therefore the abundance they have gotten, and that which they have laid up, shall they carry away over the brook of the willows.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.15.8" data-parsed="Isa_15_8_0_0" data-passage="Isa 15.8" id="Isa.15.8"/><sup>8</sup>For the cry is gone round about the borders of Moab; the wailing thereof unto Eglaim, and the wailing thereof unto Beer-elim. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.15.9" data-parsed="Isa_15_9_0_0" data-passage="Isa 15.9" id="Isa.15.9"/><sup>9</sup>For the waters of Dimon are full of blood; for I will bring yet more upon Dimon, a lion upon them of Moab that escape, and upon the remnant of the land.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>