<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Isaiah 21</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Isaiah 21</span></div><div data-next="Isa.22" data-prev="Isa.20" data-progress="58.22%" data-shorttitle="" id="Isa.21" title="Isaiah 21">
<h2 id="Isa.21-p0.1">21</h2>
<p id="Isa.21-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.21.1" data-parsed="Isa_21_1_0_0" data-passage="Isa 21.1" id="Isa.21.1"/><sup>1</sup>The burden of the wilderness of the sea. As whirlwinds in the South sweep through, it cometh from the wilderness, from a terrible land.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.21.2" data-parsed="Isa_21_2_0_0" data-passage="Isa 21.2" id="Isa.21.2"/><sup>2</sup>A grievous vision is declared unto me; the treacherous man dealeth treacherously, and the destroyer destroyeth. Go up, O Elam; besiege, O Media;
all the sighing thereof have I made to cease. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.21.3" data-parsed="Isa_21_3_0_0" data-passage="Isa 21.3" id="Isa.21.3"/><sup>3</sup>Therefore are my loins filled with anguish; pangs have taken hold upon me, as the pangs of a woman in travail: I am pained so that I cannot hear; I am dismayed so that I cannot see. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.21.4" data-parsed="Isa_21_4_0_0" data-passage="Isa 21.4" id="Isa.21.4"/><sup>4</sup>My heart fluttereth, horror hath affrighted me; the twilight that I desired hath been turned into trembling unto me. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.21.5" data-parsed="Isa_21_5_0_0" data-passage="Isa 21.5" id="Isa.21.5"/><sup>5</sup>They prepare the table,
they set the watch, they eat, they drink: rise up, ye princes, anoint the shield. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.21.6" data-parsed="Isa_21_6_0_0" data-passage="Isa 21.6" id="Isa.21.6"/><sup>6</sup>For thus hath the Lord said unto me, Go, set a watchman: let him declare what he seeth: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.21.7" data-parsed="Isa_21_7_0_0" data-passage="Isa 21.7" id="Isa.21.7"/><sup>7</sup>and when he seeth a troop, horsemen in pairs, a troop of asses, a troop of camels, he shall hearken diligently with much heed. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.21.8" data-parsed="Isa_21_8_0_0" data-passage="Isa 21.8" id="Isa.21.8"/><sup>8</sup>And he cried as a lion: O Lord, I stand continually upon the watch-tower in the day-time, and am set in my ward whole nights; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.21.9" data-parsed="Isa_21_9_0_0" data-passage="Isa 21.9" id="Isa.21.9"/><sup>9</sup>and,
behold, here cometh a troop of men, horsemen in pairs. And he answered and said, Fallen, fallen is Babylon; and all the graven images of her gods are broken unto the ground. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.21.10" data-parsed="Isa_21_10_0_0" data-passage="Isa 21.10" id="Isa.21.10"/><sup>10</sup>O thou my threshing, and the grain of my floor!
that which I have heard from Jehovah of hosts, the God of Israel, have I declared unto you. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.21.11" data-parsed="Isa_21_11_0_0" data-passage="Isa 21.11" id="Isa.21.11"/><sup>11</sup>The burden of Dumah. One calleth unto me out of Seir, Watchman, what of the night? Watchman, what of the night? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.21.12" data-parsed="Isa_21_12_0_0" data-passage="Isa 21.12" id="Isa.21.12"/><sup>12</sup>The watchman said, The morning cometh, and also the night: if ye will inquire,
inquire ye: turn ye, come. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.21.13" data-parsed="Isa_21_13_0_0" data-passage="Isa 21.13" id="Isa.21.13"/><sup>13</sup>The burden upon Arabia. In the forest in Arabia shall ye lodge, O ye caravans of Dedanites. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.21.14" data-parsed="Isa_21_14_0_0" data-passage="Isa 21.14" id="Isa.21.14"/><sup>14</sup>Unto him that was thirsty they brought water; the inhabitants of the land of Tema did meet the fugitives with their bread. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.21.15" data-parsed="Isa_21_15_0_0" data-passage="Isa 21.15" id="Isa.21.15"/><sup>15</sup>For they fled away from the swords, from the drawn sword, and from the bent bow, and from the grievousness of war.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.21.16" data-parsed="Isa_21_16_0_0" data-passage="Isa 21.16" id="Isa.21.16"/><sup>16</sup>For thus hath the Lord said unto me, Within a year, according to the years of a hireling, all the glory of Kedar shall fail; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.21.17" data-parsed="Isa_21_17_0_0" data-passage="Isa 21.17" id="Isa.21.17"/><sup>17</sup>and the residue of the number of the archers, the mighty men of the children of Kedar, shall be few; for Jehovah, the God of Israel, hath spoken it.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>