<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Isaiah 28</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Isaiah 28</span></div><div data-next="Isa.29" data-prev="Isa.27" data-progress="58.65%" data-shorttitle="" id="Isa.28" title="Isaiah 28">
<h2 id="Isa.28-p0.1">28</h2>
<p id="Isa.28-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.28.1" data-parsed="Isa_28_1_0_0" data-passage="Isa 28.1" id="Isa.28.1"/><sup>1</sup>Woe to the crown of pride of the drunkards of Ephraim, and to the fading flower of his glorious beauty, which is on the head of the fat valley of them that are overcome with wine! 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.28.2" data-parsed="Isa_28_2_0_0" data-passage="Isa 28.2" id="Isa.28.2"/><sup>2</sup>Behold, the Lord hath a mighty and strong one; as a tempest of hail, a destroying storm, as a tempest of mighty waters overflowing, will he cast down to the earth with the hand. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.28.3" data-parsed="Isa_28_3_0_0" data-passage="Isa 28.3" id="Isa.28.3"/><sup>3</sup>The crown of pride of the drunkards of Ephraim shall be trodden under foot:

<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.28.4" data-parsed="Isa_28_4_0_0" data-passage="Isa 28.4" id="Isa.28.4"/><sup>4</sup>and the fading flower of his glorious beauty, which is on the head of the fat valley, shall be as the first-ripe fig before the summer; which when he that looketh upon it seeth, while it is yet in his hand he eateth it up.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.28.5" data-parsed="Isa_28_5_0_0" data-passage="Isa 28.5" id="Isa.28.5"/><sup>5</sup>In that day will Jehovah of hosts become a crown of glory, and a diadem of beauty, unto the residue of his people; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.28.6" data-parsed="Isa_28_6_0_0" data-passage="Isa 28.6" id="Isa.28.6"/><sup>6</sup>and a spirit of justice to him that sitteth in judgment, and strength to them that turn back the battle at the gate. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.28.7" data-parsed="Isa_28_7_0_0" data-passage="Isa 28.7" id="Isa.28.7"/><sup>7</sup>And even these reel with wine, and stagger with strong drink; the priest and the prophet reel with strong drink, they are swallowed up of wine, they stagger with strong drink; they err in vision, they stumble in judgment. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.28.8" data-parsed="Isa_28_8_0_0" data-passage="Isa 28.8" id="Isa.28.8"/><sup>8</sup>For all tables are full of vomit <i>and</i> filthiness,
<i>so that there is</i> no place <i>clean</i>. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.28.9" data-parsed="Isa_28_9_0_0" data-passage="Isa 28.9" id="Isa.28.9"/><sup>9</sup>Whom will he teach knowledge? and whom will he make to understand the message? them that are weaned from the milk, and drawn from the breasts? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.28.10" data-parsed="Isa_28_10_0_0" data-passage="Isa 28.10" id="Isa.28.10"/><sup>10</sup>For it is precept upon precept, precept upon precept; line upon line, line upon line; here a little, there a little. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.28.11" data-parsed="Isa_28_11_0_0" data-passage="Isa 28.11" id="Isa.28.11"/><sup>11</sup>Nay, but by <i>men of</i> strange lips and with another tongue will he speak to this people; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.28.12" data-parsed="Isa_28_12_0_0" data-passage="Isa 28.12" id="Isa.28.12"/><sup>12</sup>to whom he said, This is the rest, give ye rest to him that is weary; and this is the refreshing:
yet they would not hear. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.28.13" data-parsed="Isa_28_13_0_0" data-passage="Isa 28.13" id="Isa.28.13"/><sup>13</sup>Therefore shall the word of Jehovah be unto them precept upon precept, precept upon precept; line upon line, line upon line; here a little, there a little; that they may go, and fall backward, and be broken, and snared, and taken. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.28.14" data-parsed="Isa_28_14_0_0" data-passage="Isa 28.14" id="Isa.28.14"/><sup>14</sup>Wherefore hear the word of Jehovah,
ye scoffers, that rule this people that is in Jerusalem: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.28.15" data-parsed="Isa_28_15_0_0" data-passage="Isa 28.15" id="Isa.28.15"/><sup>15</sup>Because ye have said, We have made a covenant with death, and with Sheol are we at agreement; when the overflowing scourge shall pass through, it shall not come unto us; for we have made lies our refuge, and under falsehood have we hid ourselves: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.28.16" data-parsed="Isa_28_16_0_0" data-passage="Isa 28.16" id="Isa.28.16"/><sup>16</sup>therefore thus saith the Lord Jehovah, Behold, I lay in Zion for a foundation a stone, a tried stone, a precious corner -<i>stone</i> of sure foundation: he that believeth shall not be in haste. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.28.17" data-parsed="Isa_28_17_0_0" data-passage="Isa 28.17" id="Isa.28.17"/><sup>17</sup>And I will make justice the line, and righteousness the plummet; and the hail shall sweep away the refuge of lies, and the waters shall overflow the hiding-place. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.28.18" data-parsed="Isa_28_18_0_0" data-passage="Isa 28.18" id="Isa.28.18"/><sup>18</sup>And your covenant with death shall be annulled, and your agreement with Sheol shall not stand; when the overflowing scourge shall pass through, then ye shall be trodden down by it. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.28.19" data-parsed="Isa_28_19_0_0" data-passage="Isa 28.19" id="Isa.28.19"/><sup>19</sup>As often as it passeth through, it shall take you; for morning by morning shall it pass through, by day and by night: and it shall be nought but terror to understand the message. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.28.20" data-parsed="Isa_28_20_0_0" data-passage="Isa 28.20" id="Isa.28.20"/><sup>20</sup>For the bed is shorter than that a man can stretch himself on it; and the covering narrower than that he can wrap himself in it. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.28.21" data-parsed="Isa_28_21_0_0" data-passage="Isa 28.21" id="Isa.28.21"/><sup>21</sup>For Jehovah will rise up as in mount Perazim, he will be wroth as in the valley of Gibeon; that he may do his work, his strange work, and bring to pass his act, his strange act. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.28.22" data-parsed="Isa_28_22_0_0" data-passage="Isa 28.22" id="Isa.28.22"/><sup>22</sup>Now therefore be ye not scoffers, lest your bonds be made strong; for a decree of destruction have I heard from the Lord,
Jehovah of hosts, upon the whole earth. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.28.23" data-parsed="Isa_28_23_0_0" data-passage="Isa 28.23" id="Isa.28.23"/><sup>23</sup>Give ye ear, and hear my voice;
hearken, and hear my speech. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.28.24" data-parsed="Isa_28_24_0_0" data-passage="Isa 28.24" id="Isa.28.24"/><sup>24</sup>Doth he that ploweth to sow plow continually? doth he <i>continually</i> open and harrow his ground?

<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.28.25" data-parsed="Isa_28_25_0_0" data-passage="Isa 28.25" id="Isa.28.25"/><sup>25</sup>When he hath levelled the face thereof, doth he not cast abroad the fitches, and scatter the cummin, and put in the wheat in rows, and the barley in the appointed place, and the spelt in the border thereof? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.28.26" data-parsed="Isa_28_26_0_0" data-passage="Isa 28.26" id="Isa.28.26"/><sup>26</sup>For his God doth instruct him aright, <i>and</i> doth teach him. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.28.27" data-parsed="Isa_28_27_0_0" data-passage="Isa 28.27" id="Isa.28.27"/><sup>27</sup>For the fitches are not threshed with a sharp <i>threshing</i> instrument, neither is a cart wheel turned about upon the cummin; but the fitches are beaten out with a staff, and the cummin with a rod. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.28.28" data-parsed="Isa_28_28_0_0" data-passage="Isa 28.28" id="Isa.28.28"/><sup>28</sup>Bread <i>grain</i> is ground;
for he will not be always threshing it: and though the wheel of his cart and his horses scatter it, he doth not grind it. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.28.29" data-parsed="Isa_28_29_0_0" data-passage="Isa 28.29" id="Isa.28.29"/><sup>29</sup>This also cometh forth from Jehovah of hosts, who is wonderful in counsel, and excellent in wisdom.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>