<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Isaiah 26</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Isaiah 26</span></div><div data-next="Isa.27" data-prev="Isa.25" data-progress="58.54%" data-shorttitle="" id="Isa.26" title="Isaiah 26">
<h2 id="Isa.26-p0.1">26</h2>
<p id="Isa.26-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.26.1" data-parsed="Isa_26_1_0_0" data-passage="Isa 26.1" id="Isa.26.1"/><sup>1</sup>In that day shall this song be sung in the land of Judah: we have a strong city; salvation will he appoint for walls and bulwarks. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.26.2" data-parsed="Isa_26_2_0_0" data-passage="Isa 26.2" id="Isa.26.2"/><sup>2</sup>Open ye the gates, that the righteous nation which keepeth faith may enter in.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.26.3" data-parsed="Isa_26_3_0_0" data-passage="Isa 26.3" id="Isa.26.3"/><sup>3</sup>Thou wilt keep <i>him</i> in perfect peace, <i>whose</i> mind <i>is</i> stayed <i>on thee</i>; because he trusteth in thee. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.26.4" data-parsed="Isa_26_4_0_0" data-passage="Isa 26.4" id="Isa.26.4"/><sup>4</sup>Trust ye in Jehovah for ever; for in Jehovah, <i>even</i> Jehovah, is an everlasting rock. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.26.5" data-parsed="Isa_26_5_0_0" data-passage="Isa 26.5" id="Isa.26.5"/><sup>5</sup>For he hath brought down them that dwell on high, the lofty city:
he layeth it low, he layeth it low even to the ground; he bringeth it even to the dust. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.26.6" data-parsed="Isa_26_6_0_0" data-passage="Isa 26.6" id="Isa.26.6"/><sup>6</sup>The foot shall tread it down; even the feet of the poor, and the steps of the needy. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.26.7" data-parsed="Isa_26_7_0_0" data-passage="Isa 26.7" id="Isa.26.7"/><sup>7</sup>The way of the just is uprightness: thou that art upright dost direct the path of the just. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.26.8" data-parsed="Isa_26_8_0_0" data-passage="Isa 26.8" id="Isa.26.8"/><sup>8</sup>Yea, in the way of thy judgments, O Jehovah, have we waited for thee; to thy name, even to thy memorial <i>name</i>, is the desire of our soul. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.26.9" data-parsed="Isa_26_9_0_0" data-passage="Isa 26.9" id="Isa.26.9"/><sup>9</sup>With my soul have I desired thee in the night; yea, with my spirit within me will I seek thee earnestly: for when thy judgments are in the earth, the inhabitants of the world learn righteousness. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.26.10" data-parsed="Isa_26_10_0_0" data-passage="Isa 26.10" id="Isa.26.10"/><sup>10</sup>Let favor be showed to the wicked, yet will he not learn righteousness; in the land of uprightness will he deal wrongfully, and will not behold the majesty of Jehovah. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.26.11" data-parsed="Isa_26_11_0_0" data-passage="Isa 26.11" id="Isa.26.11"/><sup>11</sup>Jehovah, thy hand is lifted up, yet they see not: but they shall see <i>thy</i> zeal for the people, and be put to shame; yea, fire shall devour thine adversaries.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.26.12" data-parsed="Isa_26_12_0_0" data-passage="Isa 26.12" id="Isa.26.12"/><sup>12</sup>Jehovah, thou wilt ordain peace for us; for thou hast also wrought all our works for us. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.26.13" data-parsed="Isa_26_13_0_0" data-passage="Isa 26.13" id="Isa.26.13"/><sup>13</sup>O Jehovah our God, other lords besides thee have had dominion over us; but by thee only will we make mention of thy name.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.26.14" data-parsed="Isa_26_14_0_0" data-passage="Isa 26.14" id="Isa.26.14"/><sup>14</sup><i>They are</i> dead, they shall not live; <i>they are</i> deceased,
they shall not rise: therefore hast thou visited and destroyed them, and made all remembrance of them to perish. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.26.15" data-parsed="Isa_26_15_0_0" data-passage="Isa 26.15" id="Isa.26.15"/><sup>15</sup>Thou hast increased the nation, O Jehovah, thou hast increased the nation; thou art glorified; thou hast enlarged all the borders of the land. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.26.16" data-parsed="Isa_26_16_0_0" data-passage="Isa 26.16" id="Isa.26.16"/><sup>16</sup>Jehovah, in trouble have they visited thee; they poured out a prayer <i>when</i> thy chastening was upon them. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.26.17" data-parsed="Isa_26_17_0_0" data-passage="Isa 26.17" id="Isa.26.17"/><sup>17</sup>Like as a woman with child, that draweth near the time of her delivery, is in pain and crieth out in her pangs; so we have been before thee, O Jehovah. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.26.18" data-parsed="Isa_26_18_0_0" data-passage="Isa 26.18" id="Isa.26.18"/><sup>18</sup>We have been with child, we have been in pain, we have as it were brought forth wind; we have not wrought any deliverance in the earth; neither have the inhabitants of the world fallen. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.26.19" data-parsed="Isa_26_19_0_0" data-passage="Isa 26.19" id="Isa.26.19"/><sup>19</sup>Thy dead shall live; my dead bodies shall arise. Awake and sing, ye that dwell in the dust;
for thy dew is <i>as</i> the dew of herbs, and the earth shall cast forth the dead. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.26.20" data-parsed="Isa_26_20_0_0" data-passage="Isa 26.20" id="Isa.26.20"/><sup>20</sup>Come, my people, enter thou into thy chambers, and shut thy doors about thee: hide thyself for a little moment, until the indignation be overpast. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.26.21" data-parsed="Isa_26_21_0_0" data-passage="Isa 26.21" id="Isa.26.21"/><sup>21</sup>For, behold, Jehovah cometh forth out of his place to punish the inhabitants of the earth for their iniquity: the earth also shall disclose her blood, and shall no more cover her slain.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>