<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Isaiah 23</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Isaiah 23</span></div><div data-next="Isa.24" data-prev="Isa.22" data-progress="58.36%" data-shorttitle="" id="Isa.23" title="Isaiah 23">
<h2 id="Isa.23-p0.1">23</h2>
<p id="Isa.23-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.23.1" data-parsed="Isa_23_1_0_0" data-passage="Isa 23.1" id="Isa.23.1"/><sup>1</sup>The burden of Tyre. Howl, ye ships of Tarshish; for it is laid waste, so that there is no house, no entering in: from the land of Kittim it is revealed to them. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.23.2" data-parsed="Isa_23_2_0_0" data-passage="Isa 23.2" id="Isa.23.2"/><sup>2</sup>Be still, ye inhabitants of the coast, thou whom the merchants of Sidon, that pass over the sea, have replenished. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.23.3" data-parsed="Isa_23_3_0_0" data-passage="Isa 23.3" id="Isa.23.3"/><sup>3</sup>And on great waters the seed of the Shihor, the harvest of the Nile, was her revenue; and she was the mart of nations. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.23.4" data-parsed="Isa_23_4_0_0" data-passage="Isa 23.4" id="Isa.23.4"/><sup>4</sup>Be thou ashamed, O Sidon; for the sea hath spoken, the stronghold of the sea, saying, I have not travailed,
nor brought forth, neither have I nourished young men, nor brought up virgins. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.23.5" data-parsed="Isa_23_5_0_0" data-passage="Isa 23.5" id="Isa.23.5"/><sup>5</sup>When the report cometh to Egypt, they shall be sorely pained at the report of Tyre. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.23.6" data-parsed="Isa_23_6_0_0" data-passage="Isa 23.6" id="Isa.23.6"/><sup>6</sup>Pass ye over to Tarshish; wail, ye inhabitants of the coast. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.23.7" data-parsed="Isa_23_7_0_0" data-passage="Isa 23.7" id="Isa.23.7"/><sup>7</sup>Is this your joyous <i>city</i>, whose antiquity is of ancient days, whose feet carried her afar off to sojourn? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.23.8" data-parsed="Isa_23_8_0_0" data-passage="Isa 23.8" id="Isa.23.8"/><sup>8</sup>Who hath purposed this against Tyre, the bestower of crowns, whose merchants are princes, whose traffickers are the honorable of the earth? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.23.9" data-parsed="Isa_23_9_0_0" data-passage="Isa 23.9" id="Isa.23.9"/><sup>9</sup>Jehovah of hosts hath purposed it, to stain the pride of all glory, to bring into contempt all the honorable of the earth. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.23.10" data-parsed="Isa_23_10_0_0" data-passage="Isa 23.10" id="Isa.23.10"/><sup>10</sup>Pass through thy land as the Nile, O daughter of Tarshish; there is no restraint any more. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.23.11" data-parsed="Isa_23_11_0_0" data-passage="Isa 23.11" id="Isa.23.11"/><sup>11</sup>He hath stretched out his hand over the sea, he hath shaken the kingdoms: Jehovah hath given commandment concerning Canaan, to destroy the strongholds thereof.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.23.12" data-parsed="Isa_23_12_0_0" data-passage="Isa 23.12" id="Isa.23.12"/><sup>12</sup>And he said, Thou shalt no more rejoice, O thou oppressed virgin daughter of Sidon: arise, pass over to Kittim; even there shalt thou have no rest. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.23.13" data-parsed="Isa_23_13_0_0" data-passage="Isa 23.13" id="Isa.23.13"/><sup>13</sup>Behold, the land of the Chaldeans: this people was not; the Assyrian founded it for them that dwell in the wilderness; they set up their towers; they overthrew the palaces thereof; they made it a ruin. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.23.14" data-parsed="Isa_23_14_0_0" data-passage="Isa 23.14" id="Isa.23.14"/><sup>14</sup>Howl,
ye ships of Tarshish; for your stronghold is laid waste. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.23.15" data-parsed="Isa_23_15_0_0" data-passage="Isa 23.15" id="Isa.23.15"/><sup>15</sup>And it shall come to pass in that day, that Tyre shall be forgotten seventy years,
according to the days of one king: after the end of seventy years it shall be unto Tyre as in the song of the harlot. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.23.16" data-parsed="Isa_23_16_0_0" data-passage="Isa 23.16" id="Isa.23.16"/><sup>16</sup>Take a harp, go about the city,
thou harlot that hast been forgotten; make sweet melody, sing many songs,
that thou mayest be remembered. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.23.17" data-parsed="Isa_23_17_0_0" data-passage="Isa 23.17" id="Isa.23.17"/><sup>17</sup>And it shall come to pass after the end of seventy years, that Jehovah will visit Tyre, and she shall return to her hire, and shall play the harlot with all the kingdoms of the world upon the face of the earth. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.23.18" data-parsed="Isa_23_18_0_0" data-passage="Isa 23.18" id="Isa.23.18"/><sup>18</sup>And her merchandise and her hire shall be holiness to Jehovah: it shall not be treasured nor laid up; for her merchandise shall be for them that dwell before Jehovah, to eat sufficiently, and for durable clothing.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>