<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Isaiah 29</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Isaiah 29</span></div><div data-next="Isa.30" data-prev="Isa.28" data-progress="58.75%" data-shorttitle="" id="Isa.29" title="Isaiah 29">
<h2 id="Isa.29-p0.1">29</h2>
<p id="Isa.29-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.29.1" data-parsed="Isa_29_1_0_0" data-passage="Isa 29.1" id="Isa.29.1"/><sup>1</sup>Ho Ariel, Ariel, the city where David encamped! add ye year to year; let the feasts come round: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.29.2" data-parsed="Isa_29_2_0_0" data-passage="Isa 29.2" id="Isa.29.2"/><sup>2</sup>then will I distress Ariel, and there shall be mourning and lamentation; and she shall be unto me as Ariel.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.29.3" data-parsed="Isa_29_3_0_0" data-passage="Isa 29.3" id="Isa.29.3"/><sup>3</sup>And I will encamp against thee round about, and will lay siege against thee with posted troops, and I will raise siege works against thee. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.29.4" data-parsed="Isa_29_4_0_0" data-passage="Isa 29.4" id="Isa.29.4"/><sup>4</sup>And thou shalt be brought down, and shalt speak out of the ground, and thy speech shall be low out of the dust; and thy voice shall be as of one that hath a familiar spirit, out of the ground, and thy speech shall whisper out of the dust. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.29.5" data-parsed="Isa_29_5_0_0" data-passage="Isa 29.5" id="Isa.29.5"/><sup>5</sup>But the multitude of thy foes shall be like small dust, and the multitude of the terrible ones as chaff that passeth away: yea, it shall be in an instant suddenly. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.29.6" data-parsed="Isa_29_6_0_0" data-passage="Isa 29.6" id="Isa.29.6"/><sup>6</sup>She shall be visited of Jehovah of hosts with thunder, and with earthquake, and great noise, with whirlwind and tempest,
and the flame of a devouring fire. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.29.7" data-parsed="Isa_29_7_0_0" data-passage="Isa 29.7" id="Isa.29.7"/><sup>7</sup>And the multitude of all the nations that fight against Ariel, even all that fight against her and her stronghold,
and that distress her, shall be as a dream, a vision of the night. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.29.8" data-parsed="Isa_29_8_0_0" data-passage="Isa 29.8" id="Isa.29.8"/><sup>8</sup>And it shall be as when a hungry man dreameth, and, behold, he eateth; but he awaketh, and his soul is empty: or as when a thirsty man dreameth, and,
behold, he drinketh; but he awaketh, and, behold, he is faint, and his soul hath appetite: so shall the multitude of all the nations be, that fight against mount Zion. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.29.9" data-parsed="Isa_29_9_0_0" data-passage="Isa 29.9" id="Isa.29.9"/><sup>9</sup>Tarry ye and wonder; take your pleasure and be blind: they are drunken, but not with wine; they stagger, but not with strong drink. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.29.10" data-parsed="Isa_29_10_0_0" data-passage="Isa 29.10" id="Isa.29.10"/><sup>10</sup>For Jehovah hath poured out upon you the spirit of deep sleep,
and hath closed your eyes, the prophets; and your heads, the seers, hath he covered. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.29.11" data-parsed="Isa_29_11_0_0" data-passage="Isa 29.11" id="Isa.29.11"/><sup>11</sup>And all vision is become unto you as the words of a book that is sealed, which men deliver to one that is learned, saying, Read this, I pray thee; and he saith, I cannot, for it is sealed: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.29.12" data-parsed="Isa_29_12_0_0" data-passage="Isa 29.12" id="Isa.29.12"/><sup>12</sup>and the book is delivered to him that is not learned, saying, Read this, I pray thee; and he saith, I am not learned. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.29.13" data-parsed="Isa_29_13_0_0" data-passage="Isa 29.13" id="Isa.29.13"/><sup>13</sup>And the Lord said, Forasmuch as this people draw nigh <i>unto me</i>, and with their mouth and with their lips to honor me, but have removed their heart far from me, and their fear of me is a commandment of men which hath been taught <i>them</i>; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.29.14" data-parsed="Isa_29_14_0_0" data-passage="Isa 29.14" id="Isa.29.14"/><sup>14</sup>therefore,
behold, I will proceed to do a marvellous work among this people, even a marvellous work and a wonder; and the wisdom of their wise men shall perish,
and the understanding of their prudent men shall be hid. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.29.15" data-parsed="Isa_29_15_0_0" data-passage="Isa 29.15" id="Isa.29.15"/><sup>15</sup>Woe unto them that hide deep their counsel from Jehovah, and whose works are in the dark,
and that say, Who seeth us? and who knoweth us? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.29.16" data-parsed="Isa_29_16_0_0" data-passage="Isa 29.16" id="Isa.29.16"/><sup>16</sup>Ye turn things upside down! Shall the potter be esteemed as clay; that the thing made should say of him that made it, He made me not; or the thing formed say of him that formed it, He hath no understanding? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.29.17" data-parsed="Isa_29_17_0_0" data-passage="Isa 29.17" id="Isa.29.17"/><sup>17</sup>Is it not yet a very little while, and Lebanon shall be turned into a fruitful field, and the fruitful field shall be esteemed as a forest? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.29.18" data-parsed="Isa_29_18_0_0" data-passage="Isa 29.18" id="Isa.29.18"/><sup>18</sup>And in that day shall the deaf hear the words of the book, and the eyes of the blind shall see out of obscurity and out of darkness. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.29.19" data-parsed="Isa_29_19_0_0" data-passage="Isa 29.19" id="Isa.29.19"/><sup>19</sup>The meek also shall increase their joy in Jehovah, and the poor among men shall rejoice in the Holy One of Israel. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.29.20" data-parsed="Isa_29_20_0_0" data-passage="Isa 29.20" id="Isa.29.20"/><sup>20</sup>For the terrible one is brought to nought, and the scoffer ceaseth, and all they that watch for iniquity are cut off; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.29.21" data-parsed="Isa_29_21_0_0" data-passage="Isa 29.21" id="Isa.29.21"/><sup>21</sup>that make a man an offender in <i>his</i> cause, and lay a snare for him that reproveth in the gate, and turn aside the just with a thing of nought. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.29.22" data-parsed="Isa_29_22_0_0" data-passage="Isa 29.22" id="Isa.29.22"/><sup>22</sup>Therefore thus saith Jehovah, who redeemed Abraham, concerning the house of Jacob: Jacob shall not now be ashamed, neither shall his face now wax pale. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.29.23" data-parsed="Isa_29_23_0_0" data-passage="Isa 29.23" id="Isa.29.23"/><sup>23</sup>But when he seeth his children, the work of my hands, in the midst of him, they shall sanctify my name; yea, they shall sanctify the Holy One of Jacob, and shall stand in awe of the God of Israel. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.29.24" data-parsed="Isa_29_24_0_0" data-passage="Isa 29.24" id="Isa.29.24"/><sup>24</sup>They also that err in spirit shall come to understanding, and they that murmur shall receive instruction.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>