<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Isaiah 25</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Isaiah 25</span></div><div data-next="Isa.26" data-prev="Isa.24" data-progress="58.49%" data-shorttitle="" id="Isa.25" title="Isaiah 25">
<h2 id="Isa.25-p0.1">25</h2>
<p id="Isa.25-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.25.1" data-parsed="Isa_25_1_0_0" data-passage="Isa 25.1" id="Isa.25.1"/><sup>1</sup>O Jehovah, thou art my God; I will exalt thee, I will praise thy name; for thou hast done wonderful things, <i>even</i> counsels of old, in faithfulness <i>and</i> truth. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.25.2" data-parsed="Isa_25_2_0_0" data-passage="Isa 25.2" id="Isa.25.2"/><sup>2</sup>For thou hast made of a city a heap, of a fortified city a ruin, a palace of strangers to be no city; it shall never be built. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.25.3" data-parsed="Isa_25_3_0_0" data-passage="Isa 25.3" id="Isa.25.3"/><sup>3</sup>Therefore shall a strong people glorify thee; a city of terrible nations shall fear thee. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.25.4" data-parsed="Isa_25_4_0_0" data-passage="Isa 25.4" id="Isa.25.4"/><sup>4</sup>For thou hast been a stronghold to the poor, a stronghold to the needy in his distress, a refuge from the storm, a shade from the heat, when the blast of the terrible ones is as a storm against the wall. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.25.5" data-parsed="Isa_25_5_0_0" data-passage="Isa 25.5" id="Isa.25.5"/><sup>5</sup>As the heat in a dry place wilt thou bring down the noise of strangers; as the heat by the shade of a cloud, the song of the terrible ones shall be brought low. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.25.6" data-parsed="Isa_25_6_0_0" data-passage="Isa 25.6" id="Isa.25.6"/><sup>6</sup>And in this mountain will Jehovah of hosts make unto all peoples a feast of fat things, a feast of wines on the lees, of fat things full of marrow, of wines on the lees well refined.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.25.7" data-parsed="Isa_25_7_0_0" data-passage="Isa 25.7" id="Isa.25.7"/><sup>7</sup>And he will destroy in this mountain the face of the covering that covereth all peoples, and the veil that is spread over all nations. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.25.8" data-parsed="Isa_25_8_0_0" data-passage="Isa 25.8" id="Isa.25.8"/><sup>8</sup>He hath swallowed up death for ever; and the Lord Jehovah will wipe away tears from off all faces; and the reproach of his people will he take away from off all the earth: for Jehovah hath spoken it. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.25.9" data-parsed="Isa_25_9_0_0" data-passage="Isa 25.9" id="Isa.25.9"/><sup>9</sup>And it shall be said in that day, Lo, this is our God; we have waited for him, and he will save us: this is Jehovah; we have waited for him, we will be glad and rejoice in his salvation. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.25.10" data-parsed="Isa_25_10_0_0" data-passage="Isa 25.10" id="Isa.25.10"/><sup>10</sup>For in this mountain will the hand of Jehovah rest; and Moab shall be trodden down in his place, even as straw is trodden down in the water of the dung-hill. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.25.11" data-parsed="Isa_25_11_0_0" data-passage="Isa 25.11" id="Isa.25.11"/><sup>11</sup>And he shall spread forth his hands in the midst thereof, as he that swimmeth spreadeth forth <i>his hands</i> to swim;
but <i>Jehovah</i> will lay low his pride together with the craft of his hands. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.25.12" data-parsed="Isa_25_12_0_0" data-passage="Isa 25.12" id="Isa.25.12"/><sup>12</sup>And the high fortress of thy walls hath he brought down, laid low, and brought to the ground, even to the dust.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>