<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Isaiah 24</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Isaiah 24</span></div><div data-next="Isa.25" data-prev="Isa.23" data-progress="58.42%" data-shorttitle="" id="Isa.24" title="Isaiah 24">
<h2 id="Isa.24-p0.1">24</h2>
<p id="Isa.24-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.24.1" data-parsed="Isa_24_1_0_0" data-passage="Isa 24.1" id="Isa.24.1"/><sup>1</sup>Behold, Jehovah maketh the earth empty, and maketh it waste, and turneth it upside down, and scattereth abroad the inhabitants thereof.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.24.2" data-parsed="Isa_24_2_0_0" data-passage="Isa 24.2" id="Isa.24.2"/><sup>2</sup>And it shall be, as with the people, so with the priest; as with the servant, so with his master; as with the maid, so with her mistress; as with the buyer, so with the seller; as with the creditor, so with the debtor; as with the taker of interest, so with the giver of interest to him. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.24.3" data-parsed="Isa_24_3_0_0" data-passage="Isa 24.3" id="Isa.24.3"/><sup>3</sup>The earth shall be utterly emptied, and utterly laid waste; for Jehovah hath spoken this word. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.24.4" data-parsed="Isa_24_4_0_0" data-passage="Isa 24.4" id="Isa.24.4"/><sup>4</sup>The earth mourneth and fadeth away, the world languisheth and fadeth away, the lofty people of the earth do languish.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.24.5" data-parsed="Isa_24_5_0_0" data-passage="Isa 24.5" id="Isa.24.5"/><sup>5</sup>The earth also is polluted under the inhabitants thereof; because they have transgressed the laws, violated the statutes, broken the everlasting covenant. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.24.6" data-parsed="Isa_24_6_0_0" data-passage="Isa 24.6" id="Isa.24.6"/><sup>6</sup>Therefore hath the curse devoured the earth, and they that dwell therein are found guilty: therefore the inhabitants of the earth are burned, and few men left. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.24.7" data-parsed="Isa_24_7_0_0" data-passage="Isa 24.7" id="Isa.24.7"/><sup>7</sup>The new wine mourneth, the vine languisheth,
all the merry-hearted do sigh. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.24.8" data-parsed="Isa_24_8_0_0" data-passage="Isa 24.8" id="Isa.24.8"/><sup>8</sup>The mirth of tabrets ceaseth, the noise of them that rejoice endeth, the joy of the harp ceaseth. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.24.9" data-parsed="Isa_24_9_0_0" data-passage="Isa 24.9" id="Isa.24.9"/><sup>9</sup>They shall not drink wine with a song; strong drink shall be bitter to them that drink it.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.24.10" data-parsed="Isa_24_10_0_0" data-passage="Isa 24.10" id="Isa.24.10"/><sup>10</sup>The waste city is broken down; every house is shut up, that no man may come in. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.24.11" data-parsed="Isa_24_11_0_0" data-passage="Isa 24.11" id="Isa.24.11"/><sup>11</sup>There is a crying in the streets because of the wine; all joy is darkened, the mirth of the land is gone. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.24.12" data-parsed="Isa_24_12_0_0" data-passage="Isa 24.12" id="Isa.24.12"/><sup>12</sup>In the city is left desolation, and the gate is smitten with destruction. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.24.13" data-parsed="Isa_24_13_0_0" data-passage="Isa 24.13" id="Isa.24.13"/><sup>13</sup>For thus shall it be in the midst of the earth among the peoples, as the shaking of an olive-tree, as the gleanings when the vintage is done. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.24.14" data-parsed="Isa_24_14_0_0" data-passage="Isa 24.14" id="Isa.24.14"/><sup>14</sup>These shall lift up their voice, they shall shout; for the majesty of Jehovah they cry aloud from the sea. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.24.15" data-parsed="Isa_24_15_0_0" data-passage="Isa 24.15" id="Isa.24.15"/><sup>15</sup>Wherefore glorify ye Jehovah in the east, even the name of Jehovah, the God of Israel, in the isles of the sea. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.24.16" data-parsed="Isa_24_16_0_0" data-passage="Isa 24.16" id="Isa.24.16"/><sup>16</sup>From the uttermost part of the earth have we heard songs: Glory to the righteous. But I said, I pine away, I pine away, woe is me! the treacherous have dealt treacherously; yea, the treacherous have dealt very treacherously.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.24.17" data-parsed="Isa_24_17_0_0" data-passage="Isa 24.17" id="Isa.24.17"/><sup>17</sup>Fear, and the pit, and the snare, are upon thee, O inhabitant of the earth. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.24.18" data-parsed="Isa_24_18_0_0" data-passage="Isa 24.18" id="Isa.24.18"/><sup>18</sup>And it shall come to pass, that he who fleeth from the noise of the fear shall fall into the pit; and he that cometh up out of the midst of the pit shall be taken in the snare: for the windows on high are opened, and the foundations of the earth tremble. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.24.19" data-parsed="Isa_24_19_0_0" data-passage="Isa 24.19" id="Isa.24.19"/><sup>19</sup>The earth is utterly broken, the earth is rent asunder, the earth is shaken violently. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.24.20" data-parsed="Isa_24_20_0_0" data-passage="Isa 24.20" id="Isa.24.20"/><sup>20</sup>The earth shall stagger like a drunken man, and shall sway to and fro like a hammock; and the transgression thereof shall be heavy upon it, and it shall fall, and not rise again. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.24.21" data-parsed="Isa_24_21_0_0" data-passage="Isa 24.21" id="Isa.24.21"/><sup>21</sup>And it shall come to pass in that day, that Jehovah will punish the host of the high ones on high, and the kings of the earth upon the earth.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.24.22" data-parsed="Isa_24_22_0_0" data-passage="Isa 24.22" id="Isa.24.22"/><sup>22</sup>And they shall be gathered together, as prisoners are gathered in the pit, and shall be shut up in the prison; and after many days shall they be visited. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.24.23" data-parsed="Isa_24_23_0_0" data-passage="Isa 24.23" id="Isa.24.23"/><sup>23</sup>Then the moon shall be confounded, and the sun ashamed; for Jehovah of hosts will reign in mount Zion, and in Jerusalem; and before his elders shall be glory.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>