<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Isaiah 39</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Isaiah 39</span></div><div data-next="Isa.40" data-prev="Isa.38" data-progress="59.54%" data-shorttitle="" id="Isa.39" title="Isaiah 39">
<h2 id="Isa.39-p0.1">39</h2>
<p id="Isa.39-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.39.1" data-parsed="Isa_39_1_0_0" data-passage="Isa 39.1" id="Isa.39.1"/><sup>1</sup>At that time Merodach-baladan the son of Baladan, king of Babylon,
sent letters and a present to Hezekiah; for he heard that he had been sick,
and was recovered. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.39.2" data-parsed="Isa_39_2_0_0" data-passage="Isa 39.2" id="Isa.39.2"/><sup>2</sup>And Hezekiah was glad of them, and showed them the house of his precious things, the silver, and the gold, and the spices, and the precious oil, and all the house of his armor, and all that was found in his treasures: there was nothing in his house, nor in all his dominion, that Hezekiah showed them not. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.39.3" data-parsed="Isa_39_3_0_0" data-passage="Isa 39.3" id="Isa.39.3"/><sup>3</sup>Then came Isaiah the prophet unto king Hezekiah, and said unto him, What said these men? and from whence came they unto thee? And Hezekiah said, They are come from a far country unto me, even from Babylon. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.39.4" data-parsed="Isa_39_4_0_0" data-passage="Isa 39.4" id="Isa.39.4"/><sup>4</sup>Then said he, What have they seen in thy house? And Hezekiah answered, All that is in my house have they seen: there is nothing among my treasures that I have not showed them. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.39.5" data-parsed="Isa_39_5_0_0" data-passage="Isa 39.5" id="Isa.39.5"/><sup>5</sup>Then said Isaiah to Hezekiah, Hear the word of Jehovah of hosts: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.39.6" data-parsed="Isa_39_6_0_0" data-passage="Isa 39.6" id="Isa.39.6"/><sup>6</sup>Behold, the days are coming, when all that is in thy house, and that which thy fathers have laid up in store until this day, shall be carried to Babylon: nothing shall be left, saith Jehovah. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.39.7" data-parsed="Isa_39_7_0_0" data-passage="Isa 39.7" id="Isa.39.7"/><sup>7</sup>And of thy sons that shall issue from thee, whom thou shalt beget, shall they take away; and they shall be eunuchs in the palace of the king of Babylon. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.39.8" data-parsed="Isa_39_8_0_0" data-passage="Isa 39.8" id="Isa.39.8"/><sup>8</sup>Then said Hezekiah unto Isaiah, Good is the word of Jehovah which thou hast spoken. He said moreover, For there shall be peace and truth in my days.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>