<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Isaiah 33</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Isaiah 33</span></div><div data-next="Isa.34" data-prev="Isa.32" data-progress="59.07%" data-shorttitle="" id="Isa.33" title="Isaiah 33">
<h2 id="Isa.33-p0.1">33</h2>
<p id="Isa.33-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.33.1" data-parsed="Isa_33_1_0_0" data-passage="Isa 33.1" id="Isa.33.1"/><sup>1</sup>Woe to thee that destroyest, and thou wast not destroyed; and dealest treacherously, and they dealt not treacherously with thee! When thou hast ceased to destroy, thou shalt be destroyed; and when thou hast made an end of dealing treacherously, they shall deal treacherously with thee. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.33.2" data-parsed="Isa_33_2_0_0" data-passage="Isa 33.2" id="Isa.33.2"/><sup>2</sup>O Jehovah, be gracious unto us; we have waited for thee: be thou our arm every morning, our salvation also in the time of trouble. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.33.3" data-parsed="Isa_33_3_0_0" data-passage="Isa 33.3" id="Isa.33.3"/><sup>3</sup>At the noise of the tumult the peoples are fled; at the lifting up of thyself the nations are scattered. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.33.4" data-parsed="Isa_33_4_0_0" data-passage="Isa 33.4" id="Isa.33.4"/><sup>4</sup>And your spoil shall be gathered as the caterpillar gathereth: as locusts leap shall men leap upon it. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.33.5" data-parsed="Isa_33_5_0_0" data-passage="Isa 33.5" id="Isa.33.5"/><sup>5</sup>Jehovah is exalted;
for he dwelleth on high: he hath filled Zion with justice and righteousness.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.33.6" data-parsed="Isa_33_6_0_0" data-passage="Isa 33.6" id="Isa.33.6"/><sup>6</sup>And there shall be stability in thy times, abundance of salvation,
wisdom, and knowledge: the fear of Jehovah is thy treasure. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.33.7" data-parsed="Isa_33_7_0_0" data-passage="Isa 33.7" id="Isa.33.7"/><sup>7</sup>Behold,
their valiant ones cry without; the ambassadors of peace weep bitterly.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.33.8" data-parsed="Isa_33_8_0_0" data-passage="Isa 33.8" id="Isa.33.8"/><sup>8</sup>The highways lie waste, the wayfaring man ceaseth: <i>the enemy</i>
hath broken the covenant, he hath despised the cities, he regardeth not man.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.33.9" data-parsed="Isa_33_9_0_0" data-passage="Isa 33.9" id="Isa.33.9"/><sup>9</sup>The land mourneth and languisheth; Lebanon is confounded and withereth away; Sharon is like a desert; and Bashan and Carmel shake off <i>their leaves</i>. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.33.10" data-parsed="Isa_33_10_0_0" data-passage="Isa 33.10" id="Isa.33.10"/><sup>10</sup>Now will I arise, saith Jehovah; now will I lift up myself;
now will I be exalted. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.33.11" data-parsed="Isa_33_11_0_0" data-passage="Isa 33.11" id="Isa.33.11"/><sup>11</sup>Ye shall conceive chaff, ye shall bring forth stubble: your breath is a fire that shall devour you. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.33.12" data-parsed="Isa_33_12_0_0" data-passage="Isa 33.12" id="Isa.33.12"/><sup>12</sup>And the peoples shall be as the burnings of lime, as thorns cut down, that are burned in the fire. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.33.13" data-parsed="Isa_33_13_0_0" data-passage="Isa 33.13" id="Isa.33.13"/><sup>13</sup>Hear, ye that are far off, what I have done; and, ye that are near, acknowledge my might. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.33.14" data-parsed="Isa_33_14_0_0" data-passage="Isa 33.14" id="Isa.33.14"/><sup>14</sup>The sinners in Zion are afraid; trembling hath seized the godless ones: Who among us can dwell with the devouring fire?
who among us can dwell with everlasting burnings? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.33.15" data-parsed="Isa_33_15_0_0" data-passage="Isa 33.15" id="Isa.33.15"/><sup>15</sup>He that walketh righteously, and speaketh uprightly; he that despiseth the gain of oppressions, that shaketh his hands from taking a bribe, that stoppeth his ears from hearing of blood, and shutteth his eyes from looking upon evil:

<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.33.16" data-parsed="Isa_33_16_0_0" data-passage="Isa 33.16" id="Isa.33.16"/><sup>16</sup>He shall dwell on high; his place of defence shall be the munitions of rocks; his bread shall be given <i>him</i>; his waters shall be sure.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.33.17" data-parsed="Isa_33_17_0_0" data-passage="Isa 33.17" id="Isa.33.17"/><sup>17</sup>Thine eyes shall see the king in his beauty: they shall behold a land that reacheth afar. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.33.18" data-parsed="Isa_33_18_0_0" data-passage="Isa 33.18" id="Isa.33.18"/><sup>18</sup>Thy heart shall muse on the terror: Where is he that counted, where is he that weighed <i>the tribute</i>? where is he that counted the towers? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.33.19" data-parsed="Isa_33_19_0_0" data-passage="Isa 33.19" id="Isa.33.19"/><sup>19</sup>Thou shalt not see the fierce people, a people of a deep speech that thou canst not comprehend, of a strange tongue that thou canst not understand. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.33.20" data-parsed="Isa_33_20_0_0" data-passage="Isa 33.20" id="Isa.33.20"/><sup>20</sup>Look upon Zion, the city of our solemnities:
thine eyes shall see Jerusalem a quiet habitation, a tent that shall not be removed, the stakes whereof shall never be plucked up, neither shall any of the cords thereof be broken. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.33.21" data-parsed="Isa_33_21_0_0" data-passage="Isa 33.21" id="Isa.33.21"/><sup>21</sup>But there Jehovah will be with us in majesty, a place of broad rivers and streams, wherein shall go no galley with oars, neither shall gallant ship pass thereby. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.33.22" data-parsed="Isa_33_22_0_0" data-passage="Isa 33.22" id="Isa.33.22"/><sup>22</sup>For Jehovah is our judge, Jehovah is our lawgiver, Jehovah is our king; he will save us.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.33.23" data-parsed="Isa_33_23_0_0" data-passage="Isa 33.23" id="Isa.33.23"/><sup>23</sup>Thy tacklings are loosed; they could not strengthen the foot of their mast, they could not spread the sail: then was the prey of a great spoil divided; the lame took the prey. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.33.24" data-parsed="Isa_33_24_0_0" data-passage="Isa 33.24" id="Isa.33.24"/><sup>24</sup>And the inhabitant shall not say, I am sick: the people that dwell therein shall be forgiven their iniquity.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>