<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Isaiah 3</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Isaiah 3</span></div><div data-next="Isa.4" data-prev="Isa.2" data-progress="57.09%" data-shorttitle="" id="Isa.3" title="Isaiah 3">
<h2 id="Isa.3-p0.1">3</h2>
<p id="Isa.3-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.3.1" data-parsed="Isa_3_1_0_0" data-passage="Isa 3.1" id="Isa.3.1"/><sup>1</sup>For, behold, the Lord, Jehovah of hosts, doth take away from Jerusalem and from Judah stay and staff, the whole stay of bread, and the whole stay of water; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.3.2" data-parsed="Isa_3_2_0_0" data-passage="Isa 3.2" id="Isa.3.2"/><sup>2</sup>the mighty man, and the man of war; the judge, and the prophet, and the diviner, and the elder; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.3.3" data-parsed="Isa_3_3_0_0" data-passage="Isa 3.3" id="Isa.3.3"/><sup>3</sup>the captain of fifty, and the honorable man, and the counsellor, and the expert artificer, and the skilful enchanter. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.3.4" data-parsed="Isa_3_4_0_0" data-passage="Isa 3.4" id="Isa.3.4"/><sup>4</sup>And I will give children to be their princes, and babes shall rule over them. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.3.5" data-parsed="Isa_3_5_0_0" data-passage="Isa 3.5" id="Isa.3.5"/><sup>5</sup>And the people shall be oppressed, every one by another, and every one by his neighbor: the child shall behave himself proudly against the old man, and the base against the honorable. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.3.6" data-parsed="Isa_3_6_0_0" data-passage="Isa 3.6" id="Isa.3.6"/><sup>6</sup>When a man shall take hold of his brother in the house of his father,
<i>saying</i>, Thou hast clothing, be thou our ruler, and let this ruin be under thy hand; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.3.7" data-parsed="Isa_3_7_0_0" data-passage="Isa 3.7" id="Isa.3.7"/><sup>7</sup>in that day shall he lift up <i>his voice</i>, saying,
I will not be a healer; for in my house is neither bread nor clothing: ye shall not make me ruler of the people. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.3.8" data-parsed="Isa_3_8_0_0" data-passage="Isa 3.8" id="Isa.3.8"/><sup>8</sup>For Jerusalem is ruined, and Judah is fallen; because their tongue and their doings are against Jehovah,
to provoke the eyes of his glory. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.3.9" data-parsed="Isa_3_9_0_0" data-passage="Isa 3.9" id="Isa.3.9"/><sup>9</sup>The show of their countenance doth witness against them; and they declare their sin as Sodom, they hide it not.
Woe unto their soul! for they have done evil unto themselves. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.3.10" data-parsed="Isa_3_10_0_0" data-passage="Isa 3.10" id="Isa.3.10"/><sup>10</sup>Say ye of the righteous, that <i>it shall be</i> well <i>with him</i>; for they shall eat the fruit of their doings. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.3.11" data-parsed="Isa_3_11_0_0" data-passage="Isa 3.11" id="Isa.3.11"/><sup>11</sup>Woe unto the wicked! <i>it shall be</i>
ill <i>with him</i>; for what his hands have done shall be done unto him.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.3.12" data-parsed="Isa_3_12_0_0" data-passage="Isa 3.12" id="Isa.3.12"/><sup>12</sup>As for my people, children are their oppressors, and women rule over them. O my people, they that lead thee cause thee to err, and destroy the way of thy paths. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.3.13" data-parsed="Isa_3_13_0_0" data-passage="Isa 3.13" id="Isa.3.13"/><sup>13</sup>Jehovah standeth up to contend, and standeth to judge the peoples. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.3.14" data-parsed="Isa_3_14_0_0" data-passage="Isa 3.14" id="Isa.3.14"/><sup>14</sup>Jehovah will enter into judgment with the elders of his people, and the princes thereof: It is ye that have eaten up the vineyard;
the spoil of the poor is in your houses: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.3.15" data-parsed="Isa_3_15_0_0" data-passage="Isa 3.15" id="Isa.3.15"/><sup>15</sup>what mean ye that ye crush my people, and grind the face of the poor? saith the Lord, Jehovah of hosts.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.3.16" data-parsed="Isa_3_16_0_0" data-passage="Isa 3.16" id="Isa.3.16"/><sup>16</sup>Moreover Jehovah said, Because the daughters of Zion are haughty, and walk with outstretched necks and wanton eyes, walking and mincing as they go,
and making a tinkling with their feet; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.3.17" data-parsed="Isa_3_17_0_0" data-passage="Isa 3.17" id="Isa.3.17"/><sup>17</sup>therefore the Lord will smite with a scab the crown of the head of the daughters of Zion, and Jehovah will lay bare their secret parts. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.3.18" data-parsed="Isa_3_18_0_0" data-passage="Isa 3.18" id="Isa.3.18"/><sup>18</sup>In that day the Lord will take away the beauty of their anklets, and the cauls, and the crescents; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.3.19" data-parsed="Isa_3_19_0_0" data-passage="Isa 3.19" id="Isa.3.19"/><sup>19</sup>the pendants, and the bracelets, and the mufflers; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.3.20" data-parsed="Isa_3_20_0_0" data-passage="Isa 3.20" id="Isa.3.20"/><sup>20</sup>the headtires, and the ankle chains, and the sashes, and the perfume-boxes, and the amulets;

<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.3.21" data-parsed="Isa_3_21_0_0" data-passage="Isa 3.21" id="Isa.3.21"/><sup>21</sup>the rings, and the nose-jewels; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.3.22" data-parsed="Isa_3_22_0_0" data-passage="Isa 3.22" id="Isa.3.22"/><sup>22</sup>the festival robes, and the mantles, and the shawls, and the satchels; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.3.23" data-parsed="Isa_3_23_0_0" data-passage="Isa 3.23" id="Isa.3.23"/><sup>23</sup>the hand-mirrors, and the fine linen, and the turbans, and the veils. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.3.24" data-parsed="Isa_3_24_0_0" data-passage="Isa 3.24" id="Isa.3.24"/><sup>24</sup>And it shall come to pass,
that instead of sweet spices there shall be rottenness; and instead of a girdle, a rope; and instead of well set hair, baldness; and instead of a robe, a girding of sackcloth; branding instead of beauty. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.3.25" data-parsed="Isa_3_25_0_0" data-passage="Isa 3.25" id="Isa.3.25"/><sup>25</sup>Thy men shall fall by the sword, and thy mighty in the war. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.3.26" data-parsed="Isa_3_26_0_0" data-passage="Isa 3.26" id="Isa.3.26"/><sup>26</sup>And her gates shall lament and mourn; and she shall be desolate and sit upon the ground.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>