<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Isaiah 35</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Isaiah 35</span></div><div data-next="Isa.36" data-prev="Isa.34" data-progress="59.21%" data-shorttitle="" id="Isa.35" title="Isaiah 35">
<h2 id="Isa.35-p0.1">35</h2>
<p id="Isa.35-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.35.1" data-parsed="Isa_35_1_0_0" data-passage="Isa 35.1" id="Isa.35.1"/><sup>1</sup>The wilderness and the dry land shall be glad; and the desert shall rejoice, and blossom as the rose. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.35.2" data-parsed="Isa_35_2_0_0" data-passage="Isa 35.2" id="Isa.35.2"/><sup>2</sup>It shall blossom abundantly, and rejoice even with joy and singing; the glory of Lebanon shall be given unto it, the excellency of Carmel and Sharon: they shall see the glory of Jehovah,
the excellency of our God. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.35.3" data-parsed="Isa_35_3_0_0" data-passage="Isa 35.3" id="Isa.35.3"/><sup>3</sup>Strengthen ye the weak hands, and confirm the feeble knees. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.35.4" data-parsed="Isa_35_4_0_0" data-passage="Isa 35.4" id="Isa.35.4"/><sup>4</sup>Say to them that are of a fearful heart, Be strong, fear not: behold, your God will come <i>with</i> vengeance, <i>with</i> the recompense of God; he will come and save you. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.35.5" data-parsed="Isa_35_5_0_0" data-passage="Isa 35.5" id="Isa.35.5"/><sup>5</sup>Then the eyes of the blind shall be opened, and the ears of the deaf shall be unstopped. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.35.6" data-parsed="Isa_35_6_0_0" data-passage="Isa 35.6" id="Isa.35.6"/><sup>6</sup>Then shall the lame man leap as a hart, and the tongue of the dumb shall sing; for in the wilderness shall waters break out, and streams in the desert. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.35.7" data-parsed="Isa_35_7_0_0" data-passage="Isa 35.7" id="Isa.35.7"/><sup>7</sup>And the glowing sand shall become a pool, and the thirsty ground springs of water: in the habitation of jackals, where they lay, shall be grass with reeds and rushes. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.35.8" data-parsed="Isa_35_8_0_0" data-passage="Isa 35.8" id="Isa.35.8"/><sup>8</sup>And a highway shall be there, and a way, and it shall be called The way of holiness; the unclean shall not pass over it; but it shall be for <i>the redeemed</i>: the wayfaring men, yea fools, shall not err <i>therein</i>. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.35.9" data-parsed="Isa_35_9_0_0" data-passage="Isa 35.9" id="Isa.35.9"/><sup>9</sup>No lion shall be there, nor shall any ravenous beast go up thereon; they shall not be found there; but the redeemed shall walk <i>there</i>: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.35.10" data-parsed="Isa_35_10_0_0" data-passage="Isa 35.10" id="Isa.35.10"/><sup>10</sup>and the ransomed of Jehovah shall return, and come with singing unto Zion; and everlasting joy shall be upon their heads: they shall obtain gladness and joy, and sorrow and sighing shall flee away.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>