<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Isaiah 34</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Isaiah 34</span></div><div data-next="Isa.35" data-prev="Isa.33" data-progress="59.15%" data-shorttitle="" id="Isa.34" title="Isaiah 34">
<h2 id="Isa.34-p0.1">34</h2>
<p id="Isa.34-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.34.1" data-parsed="Isa_34_1_0_0" data-passage="Isa 34.1" id="Isa.34.1"/><sup>1</sup>Come near, ye nations, to hear; and hearken, ye peoples: let the earth hear, and the fulness thereof; the world, and all things that come forth from it. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.34.2" data-parsed="Isa_34_2_0_0" data-passage="Isa 34.2" id="Isa.34.2"/><sup>2</sup>For Jehovah hath indignation against all the nations, and wrath against all their host: he hath utterly destroyed them, he hath delivered them to the slaughter. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.34.3" data-parsed="Isa_34_3_0_0" data-passage="Isa 34.3" id="Isa.34.3"/><sup>3</sup>Their slain also shall be cast out, and the stench of their dead bodies shall come up; and the mountains shall be melted with their blood. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.34.4" data-parsed="Isa_34_4_0_0" data-passage="Isa 34.4" id="Isa.34.4"/><sup>4</sup>And all the host of heaven shall be dissolved,
and the heavens shall be rolled together as a scroll; and all their host shall fade away, as the leaf fadeth from off the vine, and as a fading <i>leaf</i> from the fig-tree. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.34.5" data-parsed="Isa_34_5_0_0" data-passage="Isa 34.5" id="Isa.34.5"/><sup>5</sup>For my sword hath drunk its fill in heaven: behold, it shall come down upon Edom, and upon the people of my curse, to judgment. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.34.6" data-parsed="Isa_34_6_0_0" data-passage="Isa 34.6" id="Isa.34.6"/><sup>6</sup>The sword of Jehovah is filled with blood, it is made fat with fatness, with the blood of lambs and goats, with the fat of the kidneys of rams; for Jehovah hath a sacrifice in Bozrah, and a great slaughter in the land of Edom. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.34.7" data-parsed="Isa_34_7_0_0" data-passage="Isa 34.7" id="Isa.34.7"/><sup>7</sup>And the wild-oxen shall come down with them, and the bullocks with the bulls: and their land shall be drunken with blood, and their dust made fat with fatness. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.34.8" data-parsed="Isa_34_8_0_0" data-passage="Isa 34.8" id="Isa.34.8"/><sup>8</sup>For Jehovah hath a day of vengeance, a year of recompense for the cause of Zion. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.34.9" data-parsed="Isa_34_9_0_0" data-passage="Isa 34.9" id="Isa.34.9"/><sup>9</sup>And the streams of <i>Edom</i> shall be turned into pitch, and the dust thereof into brimstone, and the land thereof shall become burning pitch. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.34.10" data-parsed="Isa_34_10_0_0" data-passage="Isa 34.10" id="Isa.34.10"/><sup>10</sup>It shall not be quenched night nor day; the smoke thereof shall go up for ever; from generation to generation it shall lie waste; none shall pass through it for ever and ever. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.34.11" data-parsed="Isa_34_11_0_0" data-passage="Isa 34.11" id="Isa.34.11"/><sup>11</sup>But the pelican and the porcupine shall possess it; and the owl and the raven shall dwell therein: and he will stretch over it the line of confusion, and the plummet of emptiness. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.34.12" data-parsed="Isa_34_12_0_0" data-passage="Isa 34.12" id="Isa.34.12"/><sup>12</sup>They shall call the nobles thereof to the kingdom, but none shall be there; and all its princes shall be nothing. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.34.13" data-parsed="Isa_34_13_0_0" data-passage="Isa 34.13" id="Isa.34.13"/><sup>13</sup>And thorns shall come up in its palaces, nettles and thistles in the fortresses thereof; and it shall be a habitation of jackals,
a court for ostriches. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.34.14" data-parsed="Isa_34_14_0_0" data-passage="Isa 34.14" id="Isa.34.14"/><sup>14</sup>And the wild beasts of the desert shall meet with the wolves, and the wild goat shall cry to his fellow; yea, the night-monster shall settle there, and shall find her a place of rest.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.34.15" data-parsed="Isa_34_15_0_0" data-passage="Isa 34.15" id="Isa.34.15"/><sup>15</sup>There shall the dart-snake make her nest, and lay, and hatch, and gather under her shade; yea, there shall the kites be gathered, every one with her mate. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.34.16" data-parsed="Isa_34_16_0_0" data-passage="Isa 34.16" id="Isa.34.16"/><sup>16</sup>Seek ye out of the book of Jehovah, and read: no one of these shall be missing, none shall want her mate; for my mouth, it hath commanded, and his Spirit, it hath gathered them. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.34.17" data-parsed="Isa_34_17_0_0" data-passage="Isa 34.17" id="Isa.34.17"/><sup>17</sup>And he hath cast the lot for them, and his hand hath divided it unto them by line: they shall possess it for ever; from generation to generation shall they dwell therein.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>