<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Isaiah 32</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Isaiah 32</span></div><div data-next="Isa.33" data-prev="Isa.31" data-progress="59.01%" data-shorttitle="" id="Isa.32" title="Isaiah 32">
<h2 id="Isa.32-p0.1">32</h2>
<p id="Isa.32-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.32.1" data-parsed="Isa_32_1_0_0" data-passage="Isa 32.1" id="Isa.32.1"/><sup>1</sup>Behold, a king shall reign in righteousness, and princes shall rule in justice. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.32.2" data-parsed="Isa_32_2_0_0" data-passage="Isa 32.2" id="Isa.32.2"/><sup>2</sup>And a man shall be as a hiding-place from the wind, and a covert from the tempest, as streams of water in a dry place, as the shade of a great rock in a weary land. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.32.3" data-parsed="Isa_32_3_0_0" data-passage="Isa 32.3" id="Isa.32.3"/><sup>3</sup>And the eyes of them that see shall not be dim, and the ears of them that hear shall hearken. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.32.4" data-parsed="Isa_32_4_0_0" data-passage="Isa 32.4" id="Isa.32.4"/><sup>4</sup>And the heart of the rash shall understand knowledge, and the tongue of the stammerers shall be ready to speak plainly. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.32.5" data-parsed="Isa_32_5_0_0" data-passage="Isa 32.5" id="Isa.32.5"/><sup>5</sup>The fool shall be no more called noble, nor the churl said to be bountiful. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.32.6" data-parsed="Isa_32_6_0_0" data-passage="Isa 32.6" id="Isa.32.6"/><sup>6</sup>For the fool will speak folly, and his heart will work iniquity, to practise profaneness, and to utter error against Jehovah, to make empty the soul of the hungry, and to cause the drink of the thirsty to fail. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.32.7" data-parsed="Isa_32_7_0_0" data-passage="Isa 32.7" id="Isa.32.7"/><sup>7</sup>And the instruments of the churl are evil: he deviseth wicked devices to destroy the meek with lying words, even when the needy speaketh right. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.32.8" data-parsed="Isa_32_8_0_0" data-passage="Isa 32.8" id="Isa.32.8"/><sup>8</sup>But the noble deviseth noble things; and in noble things shall he continue. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.32.9" data-parsed="Isa_32_9_0_0" data-passage="Isa 32.9" id="Isa.32.9"/><sup>9</sup>Rise up, ye women that are at ease, <i>and</i> hear my voice; ye careless daughters, give ear unto my speech. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.32.10" data-parsed="Isa_32_10_0_0" data-passage="Isa 32.10" id="Isa.32.10"/><sup>10</sup>For days beyond a year shall ye be troubled, ye careless women; for the vintage shall fail, the ingathering shall not come. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.32.11" data-parsed="Isa_32_11_0_0" data-passage="Isa 32.11" id="Isa.32.11"/><sup>11</sup>Tremble, ye women that are at ease; be troubled, ye careless ones; strip you, and make you bare, and gird <i>sackcloth</i> upon your loins. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.32.12" data-parsed="Isa_32_12_0_0" data-passage="Isa 32.12" id="Isa.32.12"/><sup>12</sup>They shall smite upon the breasts for the pleasant fields, for the fruitful vine. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.32.13" data-parsed="Isa_32_13_0_0" data-passage="Isa 32.13" id="Isa.32.13"/><sup>13</sup>Upon the land of my people shall come up thorns and briers; yea, upon all the houses of joy in the joyous city. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.32.14" data-parsed="Isa_32_14_0_0" data-passage="Isa 32.14" id="Isa.32.14"/><sup>14</sup>For the palace shall be forsaken; the populous city shall be deserted; the hill and the watch-tower shall be for dens for ever, a joy of wild asses, a pasture of flocks; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.32.15" data-parsed="Isa_32_15_0_0" data-passage="Isa 32.15" id="Isa.32.15"/><sup>15</sup>until the Spirit be poured upon us from on high, and the wilderness become a fruitful field, and the fruitful field be esteemed as a forest. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.32.16" data-parsed="Isa_32_16_0_0" data-passage="Isa 32.16" id="Isa.32.16"/><sup>16</sup>Then justice shall dwell in the wilderness; and righteousness shall abide in the fruitful field. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.32.17" data-parsed="Isa_32_17_0_0" data-passage="Isa 32.17" id="Isa.32.17"/><sup>17</sup>And the work of righteousness shall be peace; and the effect of righteousness,
quietness and confidence for ever. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.32.18" data-parsed="Isa_32_18_0_0" data-passage="Isa 32.18" id="Isa.32.18"/><sup>18</sup>And my people shall abide in a peaceable habitation, and in safe dwellings, and in quiet resting-places.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.32.19" data-parsed="Isa_32_19_0_0" data-passage="Isa 32.19" id="Isa.32.19"/><sup>19</sup>But it shall hail in the downfall of the forest; and the city shall be utterly laid low. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.32.20" data-parsed="Isa_32_20_0_0" data-passage="Isa 32.20" id="Isa.32.20"/><sup>20</sup>Blessed are yet that sow beside all waters, that send forth the feet of the ox and the ass.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>