<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Isaiah 44</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Isaiah 44</span></div><div data-next="Isa.45" data-prev="Isa.43" data-progress="59.95%" data-shorttitle="" id="Isa.44" title="Isaiah 44">
<h2 id="Isa.44-p0.1">44</h2>
<p id="Isa.44-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.44.1" data-parsed="Isa_44_1_0_0" data-passage="Isa 44.1" id="Isa.44.1"/><sup>1</sup>Yet now hear, O Jacob my servant, and Israel, who I have chosen:

<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.44.2" data-parsed="Isa_44_2_0_0" data-passage="Isa 44.2" id="Isa.44.2"/><sup>2</sup>Thus saith Jehovah that made thee, and formed thee from the womb, who will help thee: Fear not, O Jacob my servant; and thou, Jeshurun, whom I have chosen. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.44.3" data-parsed="Isa_44_3_0_0" data-passage="Isa 44.3" id="Isa.44.3"/><sup>3</sup>For I will pour water upon him that is thirsty, and streams upon the dry ground; I will pour my Spirit upon thy seed, and my blessing upon thine offspring: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.44.4" data-parsed="Isa_44_4_0_0" data-passage="Isa 44.4" id="Isa.44.4"/><sup>4</sup>and they shall spring up among the grass, as willows by the watercourses. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.44.5" data-parsed="Isa_44_5_0_0" data-passage="Isa 44.5" id="Isa.44.5"/><sup>5</sup>One shall say, I am Jehovah's; and another shall call <i>himself</i> by the name of Jacob; and another shall subscribe with his hand unto Jehovah, and surname <i>himself</i> by the name of Israel.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.44.6" data-parsed="Isa_44_6_0_0" data-passage="Isa 44.6" id="Isa.44.6"/><sup>6</sup>Thus saith Jehovah, the King of Israel, and his Redeemer, Jehovah of hosts: I am the first, and I am the last; and besides me there is no God.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.44.7" data-parsed="Isa_44_7_0_0" data-passage="Isa 44.7" id="Isa.44.7"/><sup>7</sup>And who, as I, shall call, and shall declare it, and set it in order for me, since I established the ancient people? and the things that are coming,
and that shall come to pass, let them declare. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.44.8" data-parsed="Isa_44_8_0_0" data-passage="Isa 44.8" id="Isa.44.8"/><sup>8</sup>Fear ye not, neither be afraid: have I not declared unto thee of old, and showed it? and ye are my witnesses. Is there a God besides me? yea, there is no Rock; I know not any.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.44.9" data-parsed="Isa_44_9_0_0" data-passage="Isa 44.9" id="Isa.44.9"/><sup>9</sup>They that fashion a graven image are all of them vanity; and the things that they delight in shall not profit; and their own witnesses see not, nor know: that they may be put to shame. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.44.10" data-parsed="Isa_44_10_0_0" data-passage="Isa 44.10" id="Isa.44.10"/><sup>10</sup>Who hath fashioned a god, or molten an image that is profitable for nothing? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.44.11" data-parsed="Isa_44_11_0_0" data-passage="Isa 44.11" id="Isa.44.11"/><sup>11</sup>Behold, all his fellows shall be put to shame; and the workmen, they are of men: let them all be gathered together, let them stand up; they shall fear, they shall be put to shame together. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.44.12" data-parsed="Isa_44_12_0_0" data-passage="Isa 44.12" id="Isa.44.12"/><sup>12</sup>The smith <i>maketh</i> an axe, and worketh in the coals, and fashioneth it with hammers, and worketh it with his strong arm:
yea, he is hungry, and his strength faileth; he drinketh no water, and is faint. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.44.13" data-parsed="Isa_44_13_0_0" data-passage="Isa 44.13" id="Isa.44.13"/><sup>13</sup>The carpenter stretcheth out a line; he marketh it out with a pencil; he shapeth it with planes, and he marketh it out with the compasses,
and shapeth it after the figure of a man, according to the beauty of a man,
to dwell in a house. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.44.14" data-parsed="Isa_44_14_0_0" data-passage="Isa 44.14" id="Isa.44.14"/><sup>14</sup>He heweth him down cedars, and taketh the holm-tree and the oak, and strengtheneth for himself one among the trees of the forest: he planteth a fir-tree, and the rain doth nourish it. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.44.15" data-parsed="Isa_44_15_0_0" data-passage="Isa 44.15" id="Isa.44.15"/><sup>15</sup>Then shall it be for a man to burn; and he taketh thereof, and warmeth himself;
yea, he kindleth it, and baketh bread: yea, he maketh a god, and worshippeth it; he maketh it a graven image, and falleth down thereto. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.44.16" data-parsed="Isa_44_16_0_0" data-passage="Isa 44.16" id="Isa.44.16"/><sup>16</sup>He burneth part thereof in the fire; with part thereof he eateth flesh; he roasteth roast, and is satisfied; yea, he warmeth himself, and saith, Aha, I am warm,
I have seen the fire. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.44.17" data-parsed="Isa_44_17_0_0" data-passage="Isa 44.17" id="Isa.44.17"/><sup>17</sup>And the residue thereof he maketh a god, even his graven image; he falleth down unto it and worshippeth, and prayeth unto it,
and saith, Deliver me; for thou art my god. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.44.18" data-parsed="Isa_44_18_0_0" data-passage="Isa 44.18" id="Isa.44.18"/><sup>18</sup>They know not, neither do they consider: for he hath shut their eyes, that they cannot see; and their hearts, that they cannot understand. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.44.19" data-parsed="Isa_44_19_0_0" data-passage="Isa 44.19" id="Isa.44.19"/><sup>19</sup>And none calleth to mind, neither is there knowledge nor understanding to say, I have burned part of it in the fire; yea, also I have baked bread upon the coals thereof; I have roasted flesh and eaten it: and shall I make the residue thereof an abomination?
shall I fall down to the stock of a tree? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.44.20" data-parsed="Isa_44_20_0_0" data-passage="Isa 44.20" id="Isa.44.20"/><sup>20</sup>He feedeth on ashes; a deceived heart hath turned him aside; and he cannot deliver his soul, nor say, Is there not a lie in my right hand? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.44.21" data-parsed="Isa_44_21_0_0" data-passage="Isa 44.21" id="Isa.44.21"/><sup>21</sup>Remember these things, O Jacob, and Israel; for thou art my servant: I have formed thee; thou art my servant: O Israel, thou shalt not be forgotten of me. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.44.22" data-parsed="Isa_44_22_0_0" data-passage="Isa 44.22" id="Isa.44.22"/><sup>22</sup>I have blotted out, as a thick cloud, thy transgressions, and, as a cloud, thy sins: return unto me; for I have redeemed thee. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.44.23" data-parsed="Isa_44_23_0_0" data-passage="Isa 44.23" id="Isa.44.23"/><sup>23</sup>Sing, O ye heavens, for Jehovah hath done it; shout, ye lower parts of the earth; break forth into singing, ye mountains, O forest, and every tree therein: for Jehovah hath redeemed Jacob,
and will glorify himself in Israel. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.44.24" data-parsed="Isa_44_24_0_0" data-passage="Isa 44.24" id="Isa.44.24"/><sup>24</sup>Thus saith Jehovah, thy Redeemer,
and he that formed thee from the womb: I am Jehovah, that maketh all things;
that stretcheth forth the heavens alone; that spreadeth abroad the earth (who is with me?); 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.44.25" data-parsed="Isa_44_25_0_0" data-passage="Isa 44.25" id="Isa.44.25"/><sup>25</sup>that frustrateth the signs of the liars, and maketh diviners mad; that turneth wise men backward, and maketh their knowledge foolish; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.44.26" data-parsed="Isa_44_26_0_0" data-passage="Isa 44.26" id="Isa.44.26"/><sup>26</sup>that confirmeth the word of his servant, and performeth the counsel of his messengers; that saith of Jerusalem, She shall be inhabited;
and of the cities of Judah, They shall be built, and I will raise up the waste places thereof; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.44.27" data-parsed="Isa_44_27_0_0" data-passage="Isa 44.27" id="Isa.44.27"/><sup>27</sup>that saith to the deep, Be dry, and I will dry up thy rivers; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.44.28" data-parsed="Isa_44_28_0_0" data-passage="Isa 44.28" id="Isa.44.28"/><sup>28</sup>That saith of Cyrus, <i>He is</i> my shepherd, and shall perform all my pleasure, even saying of Jerusalem, She shall be built; and of the temple, Thy foundation shall be laid.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>