<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Isaiah 47</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Isaiah 47</span></div><div data-next="Isa.48" data-prev="Isa.46" data-progress="60.19%" data-shorttitle="" id="Isa.47" title="Isaiah 47">
<h2 id="Isa.47-p0.1">47</h2>
<p id="Isa.47-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.47.1" data-parsed="Isa_47_1_0_0" data-passage="Isa 47.1" id="Isa.47.1"/><sup>1</sup>Come down, and sit in the dust, O virgin daughter of Babylon; sit on the ground without a throne, O daughter of the Chaldeans: for thou shalt no more be called tender and delicate. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.47.2" data-parsed="Isa_47_2_0_0" data-passage="Isa 47.2" id="Isa.47.2"/><sup>2</sup>Take the millstones, and grind meal; remove thy veil, strip off the train, uncover the leg, pass through the rivers. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.47.3" data-parsed="Isa_47_3_0_0" data-passage="Isa 47.3" id="Isa.47.3"/><sup>3</sup>Thy nakedness shall be uncovered, yea, thy shame shall be seen:
I will take vengeance, and will spare no man. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.47.4" data-parsed="Isa_47_4_0_0" data-passage="Isa 47.4" id="Isa.47.4"/><sup>4</sup>Our Redeemer, Jehovah of hosts is his name, the Holy One of Israel. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.47.5" data-parsed="Isa_47_5_0_0" data-passage="Isa 47.5" id="Isa.47.5"/><sup>5</sup>Sit thou silent, and get thee into darkness, O daughter of the Chaldeans; for thou shalt no more be called The mistress of kingdoms. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.47.6" data-parsed="Isa_47_6_0_0" data-passage="Isa 47.6" id="Isa.47.6"/><sup>6</sup>I was wroth with my people, I profaned mine inheritance, and gave them into thy hand: thou didst show them no mercy; upon the aged hast thou very heavily laid thy yoke. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.47.7" data-parsed="Isa_47_7_0_0" data-passage="Isa 47.7" id="Isa.47.7"/><sup>7</sup>And thou saidst, I shall be mistress for ever; so that thou didst not lay these things to thy heart,
neither didst remember the latter end thereof. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.47.8" data-parsed="Isa_47_8_0_0" data-passage="Isa 47.8" id="Isa.47.8"/><sup>8</sup>Now therefore hear this,
thou that art given to pleasures, that sittest securely, that sayest in thy heart, I am, and there is none else besides me; I shall not sit as a widow,
neither shall I know the loss of children: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.47.9" data-parsed="Isa_47_9_0_0" data-passage="Isa 47.9" id="Isa.47.9"/><sup>9</sup>but these two things shall come to thee in a moment in one day, the loss of children, and widowhood; in their full measure shall they come upon thee, in the multitude of thy sorceries, and the great abundance of thine enchantments. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.47.10" data-parsed="Isa_47_10_0_0" data-passage="Isa 47.10" id="Isa.47.10"/><sup>10</sup>For thou hast trusted in thy wickedness; thou hast said, None seeth me; thy wisdom and thy knowledge, it hath perverted thee, and thou hast said in thy heart, I am, and there is none else besides me. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.47.11" data-parsed="Isa_47_11_0_0" data-passage="Isa 47.11" id="Isa.47.11"/><sup>11</sup>Therefore shall evil come upon thee;
thou shalt not know the dawning thereof: and mischief shall fall upon thee;
thou shalt not be able to put it away: and desolation shall come upon thee suddenly, which thou knowest not. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.47.12" data-parsed="Isa_47_12_0_0" data-passage="Isa 47.12" id="Isa.47.12"/><sup>12</sup>Stand now with thine enchantments,
and with the multitude of thy sorceries, wherein thou hast labored from thy youth; if so be thou shalt be able to profit, if so be thou mayest prevail.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.47.13" data-parsed="Isa_47_13_0_0" data-passage="Isa 47.13" id="Isa.47.13"/><sup>13</sup>Thou art wearied in the multitude of thy counsels: let now the astrologers, the star-gazers, the monthly prognosticators, stand up, and save thee from the things that shall come upon thee. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.47.14" data-parsed="Isa_47_14_0_0" data-passage="Isa 47.14" id="Isa.47.14"/><sup>14</sup>Behold, they shall be as stubble; the fire shall burn them; they shall not deliver themselves from the power of the flame: it shall not be a coal to warm at, nor a fire to sit before. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.47.15" data-parsed="Isa_47_15_0_0" data-passage="Isa 47.15" id="Isa.47.15"/><sup>15</sup>Thus shall the things be unto thee wherein thou hast labored:
they that have trafficked with thee from thy youth shall wander every one to his quarter; there shall be none to save thee.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>