<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Isaiah 42</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Isaiah 42</span></div><div data-next="Isa.43" data-prev="Isa.41" data-progress="59.78%" data-shorttitle="" id="Isa.42" title="Isaiah 42">
<h2 id="Isa.42-p0.1">42</h2>
<p id="Isa.42-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.42.1" data-parsed="Isa_42_1_0_0" data-passage="Isa 42.1" id="Isa.42.1"/><sup>1</sup>Behold, my servant, whom I uphold; my chosen, in whom my soul delighteth: I have put my Spirit upon him; he will bring forth justice to the Gentiles. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.42.2" data-parsed="Isa_42_2_0_0" data-passage="Isa 42.2" id="Isa.42.2"/><sup>2</sup>He will not cry, nor lift up his voice, nor cause it to be heard in the street. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.42.3" data-parsed="Isa_42_3_0_0" data-passage="Isa 42.3" id="Isa.42.3"/><sup>3</sup>A bruised reed will he not break, and a dimly burning wick will he not quench: he will bring forth justice in truth.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.42.4" data-parsed="Isa_42_4_0_0" data-passage="Isa 42.4" id="Isa.42.4"/><sup>4</sup>He will not fail nor be discouraged, till he have set justice in the earth; and the isles shall wait for his law. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.42.5" data-parsed="Isa_42_5_0_0" data-passage="Isa 42.5" id="Isa.42.5"/><sup>5</sup>Thus saith God Jehovah, he that created the heavens, and stretched them forth; he that spread abroad the earth and that which cometh out of it; he that giveth breath unto the people upon it, and spirit to them that walk therein: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.42.6" data-parsed="Isa_42_6_0_0" data-passage="Isa 42.6" id="Isa.42.6"/><sup>6</sup>I, Jehovah, have called thee in righteousness, and will hold thy hand, and will keep thee, and give thee for a covenant of the people, for a light of the Gentiles; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.42.7" data-parsed="Isa_42_7_0_0" data-passage="Isa 42.7" id="Isa.42.7"/><sup>7</sup>to open the blind eyes, to bring out the prisoners from the dungeon, and them that sit in darkness out of the prison-house. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.42.8" data-parsed="Isa_42_8_0_0" data-passage="Isa 42.8" id="Isa.42.8"/><sup>8</sup>I am Jehovah, that is my name;
and my glory will I not give to another, neither my praise unto graven images. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.42.9" data-parsed="Isa_42_9_0_0" data-passage="Isa 42.9" id="Isa.42.9"/><sup>9</sup>Behold, the former things are come to pass, and new things do I declare; before they spring forth I tell you of them. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.42.10" data-parsed="Isa_42_10_0_0" data-passage="Isa 42.10" id="Isa.42.10"/><sup>10</sup>Sing unto Jehovah a new song, and his praise from the end of the earth; ye that go down to the sea, and all that is therein, the isles, and the inhabitants thereof.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.42.11" data-parsed="Isa_42_11_0_0" data-passage="Isa 42.11" id="Isa.42.11"/><sup>11</sup>Let the wilderness and the cities thereof lift up <i>their voice</i>,
the villages that Kedar doth inhabit; let the inhabitants of Sela sing, let them shout from the top of the mountains. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.42.12" data-parsed="Isa_42_12_0_0" data-passage="Isa 42.12" id="Isa.42.12"/><sup>12</sup>Let them give glory unto Jehovah, and declare his praise in the islands. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.42.13" data-parsed="Isa_42_13_0_0" data-passage="Isa 42.13" id="Isa.42.13"/><sup>13</sup>Jehovah will go forth as a mighty man; he will stir up <i>his</i> zeal like a man of war: he will cry, yea, he will shout aloud; he will do mightily against his enemies.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.42.14" data-parsed="Isa_42_14_0_0" data-passage="Isa 42.14" id="Isa.42.14"/><sup>14</sup>I have long time holden my peace; I have been still, and refrained myself: <i>now</i> will I cry out like a travailing woman; I will gasp and pant together. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.42.15" data-parsed="Isa_42_15_0_0" data-passage="Isa 42.15" id="Isa.42.15"/><sup>15</sup>I will lay waste mountains and hills, and dry up all their herbs; and I will make the rivers islands, and will dry up the pools.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.42.16" data-parsed="Isa_42_16_0_0" data-passage="Isa 42.16" id="Isa.42.16"/><sup>16</sup>And I will bring the blind by a way that they know not; in paths that they know not will I lead them; I will make darkness light before them, and crooked places straight. These things will I do, and I will not forsake them.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.42.17" data-parsed="Isa_42_17_0_0" data-passage="Isa 42.17" id="Isa.42.17"/><sup>17</sup>They shall be turned back, they shall be utterly put to shame, that trust in graven images, that say unto molten images, Ye are our gods.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.42.18" data-parsed="Isa_42_18_0_0" data-passage="Isa 42.18" id="Isa.42.18"/><sup>18</sup>Hear, ye deaf; and look, ye blind, that ye may see. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.42.19" data-parsed="Isa_42_19_0_0" data-passage="Isa 42.19" id="Isa.42.19"/><sup>19</sup>Who is blind,
but my servant? or deaf, as my messenger that I send? who is blind as he that is at peace <i>with me</i>, and blind as Jehovah's servant? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.42.20" data-parsed="Isa_42_20_0_0" data-passage="Isa 42.20" id="Isa.42.20"/><sup>20</sup>Thou seest many things, but thou observest not; his ears are open, but he heareth not.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.42.21" data-parsed="Isa_42_21_0_0" data-passage="Isa 42.21" id="Isa.42.21"/><sup>21</sup>It pleased Jehovah, for his righteousness' sake, to magnify the law,
and make it honorable. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.42.22" data-parsed="Isa_42_22_0_0" data-passage="Isa 42.22" id="Isa.42.22"/><sup>22</sup>But this is a people robbed and plundered; they are all of them snared in holes, and they are hid in prison-houses: they are for a prey, and none delivereth; for a spoil, and none saith, Restore.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.42.23" data-parsed="Isa_42_23_0_0" data-passage="Isa 42.23" id="Isa.42.23"/><sup>23</sup>Who is there among you that will give ear to this? that will hearken and hear for the time to come? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.42.24" data-parsed="Isa_42_24_0_0" data-passage="Isa 42.24" id="Isa.42.24"/><sup>24</sup>Who gave Jacob for a spoil, and Israel to the robbers? did not Jehovah? he against whom we have sinned, and in whose ways they would not walk, neither were they obedient unto his law.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.42.25" data-parsed="Isa_42_25_0_0" data-passage="Isa 42.25" id="Isa.42.25"/><sup>25</sup>Therefore he poured upon him the fierceness of his anger, and the strength of battle; and it set him on fire round about, yet he knew not; and it burned him, yet he laid it not to heart.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>