<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Isaiah 41</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Isaiah 41</span></div><div data-next="Isa.42" data-prev="Isa.40" data-progress="59.68%" data-shorttitle="" id="Isa.41" title="Isaiah 41">
<h2 id="Isa.41-p0.1">41</h2>
<p id="Isa.41-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.41.1" data-parsed="Isa_41_1_0_0" data-passage="Isa 41.1" id="Isa.41.1"/><sup>1</sup>Keep silence before me, O islands; and let the peoples renew their strength: let them come near; then let them speak; let us come near together to judgment. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.41.2" data-parsed="Isa_41_2_0_0" data-passage="Isa 41.2" id="Isa.41.2"/><sup>2</sup>Who hath raised up one from the east, whom he calleth in righteousness to his foot? he giveth nations before him, and maketh him rule over kings; he giveth them as the dust to his sword, as the driven stubble to his bow. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.41.3" data-parsed="Isa_41_3_0_0" data-passage="Isa 41.3" id="Isa.41.3"/><sup>3</sup>He pursueth them, and passeth on safely, even by a way that he had not gone with his feet. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.41.4" data-parsed="Isa_41_4_0_0" data-passage="Isa 41.4" id="Isa.41.4"/><sup>4</sup>Who hath wrought and done it, calling the generations from the beginning? I, Jehovah, the first, and with the last, I am he. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.41.5" data-parsed="Isa_41_5_0_0" data-passage="Isa 41.5" id="Isa.41.5"/><sup>5</sup>The isles have seen, and fear; the ends of the earth tremble;
they draw near, and come. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.41.6" data-parsed="Isa_41_6_0_0" data-passage="Isa 41.6" id="Isa.41.6"/><sup>6</sup>They help every one his neighbor; and <i>every one</i> saith to his brother, Be of good courage. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.41.7" data-parsed="Isa_41_7_0_0" data-passage="Isa 41.7" id="Isa.41.7"/><sup>7</sup>So the carpenter encourageth the goldsmith, <i>and</i> he that smootheth with the hammer him that smiteth the anvil, saying of the soldering, It is good; and he fasteneth it with nails, that it should not be moved. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.41.8" data-parsed="Isa_41_8_0_0" data-passage="Isa 41.8" id="Isa.41.8"/><sup>8</sup>But thou,
Israel, my servant, Jacob whom I have chosen, the seed of Abraham my friend,

<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.41.9" data-parsed="Isa_41_9_0_0" data-passage="Isa 41.9" id="Isa.41.9"/><sup>9</sup>thou whom I have taken hold of from the ends of the earth, and called from the corners thereof, and said unto thee, Thou art my servant, I have chosen thee and not cast thee away; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.41.10" data-parsed="Isa_41_10_0_0" data-passage="Isa 41.10" id="Isa.41.10"/><sup>10</sup>Fear thou not, for I am with thee;
be not dismayed, for I am thy God; I will strengthen thee; yea, I will help thee; yea, I will uphold thee with the right hand of my righteousness.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.41.11" data-parsed="Isa_41_11_0_0" data-passage="Isa 41.11" id="Isa.41.11"/><sup>11</sup>Behold, all they that are incensed against thee shall be put to shame and confounded: they that strive with thee shall be as nothing, and shall perish. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.41.12" data-parsed="Isa_41_12_0_0" data-passage="Isa 41.12" id="Isa.41.12"/><sup>12</sup>Thou shalt seek them, and shalt not find them, even them that contend with thee: they that war against thee shall be as nothing, and as a thing of nought. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.41.13" data-parsed="Isa_41_13_0_0" data-passage="Isa 41.13" id="Isa.41.13"/><sup>13</sup>For I, Jehovah thy God, will hold thy right hand,
saying unto thee, Fear not; I will help thee. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.41.14" data-parsed="Isa_41_14_0_0" data-passage="Isa 41.14" id="Isa.41.14"/><sup>14</sup>Fear not, thou worm Jacob, and ye men of Israel; I will help thee, saith Jehovah, and thy Redeemer is the Holy One of Israel. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.41.15" data-parsed="Isa_41_15_0_0" data-passage="Isa 41.15" id="Isa.41.15"/><sup>15</sup>Behold, I have made thee <i>to be</i> a new sharp threshing instrument having teeth; thou shalt thresh the mountains, and beat them small, and shalt make the hills as chaff. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.41.16" data-parsed="Isa_41_16_0_0" data-passage="Isa 41.16" id="Isa.41.16"/><sup>16</sup>Thou shalt winnow them, and the wind shall carry them away, and the whirlwind shall scatter them; and thou shalt rejoice in Jehovah, thou shalt glory in the Holy One of Israel. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.41.17" data-parsed="Isa_41_17_0_0" data-passage="Isa 41.17" id="Isa.41.17"/><sup>17</sup>The poor and needy seek water, and there is none, and their tongue faileth for thirst; I, Jehovah, will answer them, I,
the God of Israel, will not forsake them. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.41.18" data-parsed="Isa_41_18_0_0" data-passage="Isa 41.18" id="Isa.41.18"/><sup>18</sup>I will open rivers on the bare heights, and fountains in the midst of the valleys; I will make the wilderness a pool of water, and the dry land springs of water. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.41.19" data-parsed="Isa_41_19_0_0" data-passage="Isa 41.19" id="Isa.41.19"/><sup>19</sup>I will put in the wilderness the cedar, the acacia, and the myrtle, and the oil-tree; I will set in the desert the fir-tree, the pine, and the box-tree together: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.41.20" data-parsed="Isa_41_20_0_0" data-passage="Isa 41.20" id="Isa.41.20"/><sup>20</sup>that they may see, and know, and consider, and understand together, that the hand of Jehovah hath done this, and the Holy One of Israel hath created it. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.41.21" data-parsed="Isa_41_21_0_0" data-passage="Isa 41.21" id="Isa.41.21"/><sup>21</sup>Produce your cause, saith Jehovah; bring forth your strong reasons, saith the King of Jacob. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.41.22" data-parsed="Isa_41_22_0_0" data-passage="Isa 41.22" id="Isa.41.22"/><sup>22</sup>Let them bring forth, and declare unto us what shall happen: declare ye the former things, what they are, that we may consider them, and know the latter end of them; or show us things to come. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.41.23" data-parsed="Isa_41_23_0_0" data-passage="Isa 41.23" id="Isa.41.23"/><sup>23</sup>Declare the things that are to come hereafter, that we may know that ye are gods: yea, do good, or do evil, that we may be dismayed,
and behold it together. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.41.24" data-parsed="Isa_41_24_0_0" data-passage="Isa 41.24" id="Isa.41.24"/><sup>24</sup>Behold, ye are of nothing, and your work is of nought; an abomination is he that chooseth you. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.41.25" data-parsed="Isa_41_25_0_0" data-passage="Isa 41.25" id="Isa.41.25"/><sup>25</sup>I have raised up one from the north, and he is come; from the rising of the sun one that calleth upon my name: and he shall come upon rulers as upon mortar, and as the potter treadeth clay. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.41.26" data-parsed="Isa_41_26_0_0" data-passage="Isa 41.26" id="Isa.41.26"/><sup>26</sup>Who hath declared it from the beginning, that we may know? and beforetime, that we may say, <i>He is</i> right? yea, there is none that declareth, yea, there is none that showeth, yea, there is none that heareth your words. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.41.27" data-parsed="Isa_41_27_0_0" data-passage="Isa 41.27" id="Isa.41.27"/><sup>27</sup><i>I am the</i> first <i>that saith</i> unto Zion, Behold, behold them; and I will give to Jerusalem one that bringeth good tidings. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.41.28" data-parsed="Isa_41_28_0_0" data-passage="Isa 41.28" id="Isa.41.28"/><sup>28</sup>And when I look, there is no man: even among them there is no counsellor, that, when I ask of them, can answer a word. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.41.29" data-parsed="Isa_41_29_0_0" data-passage="Isa 41.29" id="Isa.41.29"/><sup>29</sup>Behold,
all of them, their works are vanity <i>and</i> nought; their molten images are wind and confusion.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>