<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Isaiah 46</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Isaiah 46</span></div><div data-next="Isa.47" data-prev="Isa.45" data-progress="60.15%" data-shorttitle="" id="Isa.46" title="Isaiah 46">
<h2 id="Isa.46-p0.1">46</h2>
<p id="Isa.46-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.46.1" data-parsed="Isa_46_1_0_0" data-passage="Isa 46.1" id="Isa.46.1"/><sup>1</sup>Bel boweth down, Nebo stoopeth; their idols are upon the beasts,
and upon the cattle: the things that ye carried about are made a load, a burden to the weary <i>beast</i>. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.46.2" data-parsed="Isa_46_2_0_0" data-passage="Isa 46.2" id="Isa.46.2"/><sup>2</sup>They stoop, they bow down together;
they could not deliver the burden, but themselves are gone into captivity.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.46.3" data-parsed="Isa_46_3_0_0" data-passage="Isa 46.3" id="Isa.46.3"/><sup>3</sup>Hearken unto me, O house of Jacob, and all the remnant of the house of Israel, that have been borne <i>by me</i> from their birth, that have been carried from the womb; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.46.4" data-parsed="Isa_46_4_0_0" data-passage="Isa 46.4" id="Isa.46.4"/><sup>4</sup>and even to old age I am he, and even to hoar hairs will I carry <i>you</i>; I have made, and I will bear; yea, I will carry, and will deliver. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.46.5" data-parsed="Isa_46_5_0_0" data-passage="Isa 46.5" id="Isa.46.5"/><sup>5</sup>To whom will ye like me, and make me equal, and compare me, that we may be like? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.46.6" data-parsed="Isa_46_6_0_0" data-passage="Isa 46.6" id="Isa.46.6"/><sup>6</sup>Such as lavish gold out of the bag, and weigh silver in the balance, they hire a goldsmith, and he maketh it a god;
they fall down, yea, they worship. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.46.7" data-parsed="Isa_46_7_0_0" data-passage="Isa 46.7" id="Isa.46.7"/><sup>7</sup>They bear it upon the shoulder, they carry it, and set it in its place, and it standeth, from its place shall it not remove: yea, one may cry unto it, yet can it not answer, nor save him out of his trouble. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.46.8" data-parsed="Isa_46_8_0_0" data-passage="Isa 46.8" id="Isa.46.8"/><sup>8</sup>Remember this, and show yourselves men; bring it again to mind, O ye transgressors. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.46.9" data-parsed="Isa_46_9_0_0" data-passage="Isa 46.9" id="Isa.46.9"/><sup>9</sup>Remember the former things of old: for I am God, and there is none else; <i>I am</i> God, and there is none like me;

<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.46.10" data-parsed="Isa_46_10_0_0" data-passage="Isa 46.10" id="Isa.46.10"/><sup>10</sup>declaring the end from the beginning, and from ancient times things that are not <i>yet</i> done; saying, My counsel shall stand, and I will do all my pleasure; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.46.11" data-parsed="Isa_46_11_0_0" data-passage="Isa 46.11" id="Isa.46.11"/><sup>11</sup>calling a ravenous bird from the east, the man of my counsel from a far country; yea, I have spoken, I will also bring it to pass;
I have purposed, I will also do it. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.46.12" data-parsed="Isa_46_12_0_0" data-passage="Isa 46.12" id="Isa.46.12"/><sup>12</sup>Hearken unto me, ye stout-hearted,
that are far from righteousness: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.46.13" data-parsed="Isa_46_13_0_0" data-passage="Isa 46.13" id="Isa.46.13"/><sup>13</sup>I bring near my righteousness, it shall not be far off, and my salvation shall not tarry; and I will place salvation in Zion for Israel my glory.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>