<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Isaiah 40</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Isaiah 40</span></div><div data-next="Isa.41" data-prev="Isa.39" data-progress="59.58%" data-shorttitle="" id="Isa.40" title="Isaiah 40">
<h2 id="Isa.40-p0.1">40</h2>
<p id="Isa.40-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.40.1" data-parsed="Isa_40_1_0_0" data-passage="Isa 40.1" id="Isa.40.1"/><sup>1</sup>Comfort ye, comfort ye my people, saith your God. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.40.2" data-parsed="Isa_40_2_0_0" data-passage="Isa 40.2" id="Isa.40.2"/><sup>2</sup>Speak ye comfortably to Jerusalem; and cry unto her, that her warfare is accomplished,
that her iniquity is pardoned, that she hath received of Jehovah's hand double for all her sins. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.40.3" data-parsed="Isa_40_3_0_0" data-passage="Isa 40.3" id="Isa.40.3"/><sup>3</sup>The voice of one that crieth, Prepare ye in the wilderness the way of Jehovah; make level in the desert a highway for our God. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.40.4" data-parsed="Isa_40_4_0_0" data-passage="Isa 40.4" id="Isa.40.4"/><sup>4</sup>Every valley shall be exalted, and every mountain and hill shall be made low; and the uneven shall be made level, and the rough places a plain:

<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.40.5" data-parsed="Isa_40_5_0_0" data-passage="Isa 40.5" id="Isa.40.5"/><sup>5</sup>and the glory of Jehovah shall be revealed, and all flesh shall see it together; for the mouth of Jehovah hath spoken it. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.40.6" data-parsed="Isa_40_6_0_0" data-passage="Isa 40.6" id="Isa.40.6"/><sup>6</sup>The voice of one saying, Cry. And one said, What shall I cry? All flesh is grass, and all the goodliness thereof is as the flower of the field. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.40.7" data-parsed="Isa_40_7_0_0" data-passage="Isa 40.7" id="Isa.40.7"/><sup>7</sup>The grass withereth,
the flower fadeth, because the breath of Jehovah bloweth upon it; surely the people is grass. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.40.8" data-parsed="Isa_40_8_0_0" data-passage="Isa 40.8" id="Isa.40.8"/><sup>8</sup>The grass withereth, the flower fadeth; but the word of our God shall stand forever. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.40.9" data-parsed="Isa_40_9_0_0" data-passage="Isa 40.9" id="Isa.40.9"/><sup>9</sup>O thou that tellest good tidings to Zion,
get thee up on a high mountain; O thou that tellest good tidings to Jerusalem, lift up thy voice with strength; lift it up, be not afraid; say unto the cities of Judah, Behold, your God! 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.40.10" data-parsed="Isa_40_10_0_0" data-passage="Isa 40.10" id="Isa.40.10"/><sup>10</sup>Behold, the Lord Jehovah will come as a mighty one, and his arm will rule for him: Behold, his reward is with him, and his recompense before him. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.40.11" data-parsed="Isa_40_11_0_0" data-passage="Isa 40.11" id="Isa.40.11"/><sup>11</sup>He will feed his flock like a shepherd, he will gather the lambs in his arm, and carry them in his bosom,
<i>and</i> will gently lead those that have their young. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.40.12" data-parsed="Isa_40_12_0_0" data-passage="Isa 40.12" id="Isa.40.12"/><sup>12</sup>Who hath measured the waters in the hollow of his hand, and meted out heaven with the span, and comprehended the dust of the earth in a measure, and weighed the mountains in scales, and the hills in a balance? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.40.13" data-parsed="Isa_40_13_0_0" data-passage="Isa 40.13" id="Isa.40.13"/><sup>13</sup>Who hath directed the Spirit of Jehovah, or being his counsellor hath taught him? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.40.14" data-parsed="Isa_40_14_0_0" data-passage="Isa 40.14" id="Isa.40.14"/><sup>14</sup>With whom took he counsel, and who instructed him, and taught him in the path of justice, and taught him knowledge, and showed to him the way of understanding? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.40.15" data-parsed="Isa_40_15_0_0" data-passage="Isa 40.15" id="Isa.40.15"/><sup>15</sup>Behold, the nations are as a drop of a bucket, and are accounted as the small dust of the balance: Behold, he taketh up the isles as a very little thing. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.40.16" data-parsed="Isa_40_16_0_0" data-passage="Isa 40.16" id="Isa.40.16"/><sup>16</sup>And Lebanon is not sufficient to burn, nor the beasts thereof sufficient for a burnt-offering. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.40.17" data-parsed="Isa_40_17_0_0" data-passage="Isa 40.17" id="Isa.40.17"/><sup>17</sup>All the nations are as nothing before him; they are accounted by him as less than nothing, and vanity. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.40.18" data-parsed="Isa_40_18_0_0" data-passage="Isa 40.18" id="Isa.40.18"/><sup>18</sup>To whom then will ye liken God? or what likeness will ye compare unto him? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.40.19" data-parsed="Isa_40_19_0_0" data-passage="Isa 40.19" id="Isa.40.19"/><sup>19</sup>The image, a workman hath cast <i>it</i>, and the goldsmith overlayeth it with gold, and casteth <i>for it</i> silver chains.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.40.20" data-parsed="Isa_40_20_0_0" data-passage="Isa 40.20" id="Isa.40.20"/><sup>20</sup>He that is too impoverished for <i>such</i> an oblation chooseth a tree that will not rot; he seeketh unto him a skilful workman to set up a graven image, that shall not be moved. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.40.21" data-parsed="Isa_40_21_0_0" data-passage="Isa 40.21" id="Isa.40.21"/><sup>21</sup>Have ye not known? have yet not heard? hath it not been told you from the beginning? have ye not understood from the foundations of the earth? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.40.22" data-parsed="Isa_40_22_0_0" data-passage="Isa 40.22" id="Isa.40.22"/><sup>22</sup><i>It is</i> he that sitteth above the circle of the earth, and the inhabitants thereof are as grasshoppers;
that stretcheth out the heavens as a curtain, and spreadeth them out as a tent to dwell in; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.40.23" data-parsed="Isa_40_23_0_0" data-passage="Isa 40.23" id="Isa.40.23"/><sup>23</sup>that bringeth princes to nothing; that maketh the judges of the earth as vanity. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.40.24" data-parsed="Isa_40_24_0_0" data-passage="Isa 40.24" id="Isa.40.24"/><sup>24</sup>Yea, they have not been planted; yea,
they have not been sown; yea, their stock hath not taken root in the earth:
moreover he bloweth upon them, and they wither, and the whirlwind taketh them away as stubble. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.40.25" data-parsed="Isa_40_25_0_0" data-passage="Isa 40.25" id="Isa.40.25"/><sup>25</sup>To whom then will ye liken me, that I should be equal <i>to him</i>? saith the Holy One. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.40.26" data-parsed="Isa_40_26_0_0" data-passage="Isa 40.26" id="Isa.40.26"/><sup>26</sup>Lift up your eyes on high, and see who hath created these, that bringeth out their host by number; he calleth them all by name; by the greatness of his might, and for that he is strong in power, not one is lacking. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.40.27" data-parsed="Isa_40_27_0_0" data-passage="Isa 40.27" id="Isa.40.27"/><sup>27</sup>Why sayest thou, O Jacob, and speakest, O Israel, My way is hid from Jehovah, and the justice <i>due</i> to me is passed away from my God? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.40.28" data-parsed="Isa_40_28_0_0" data-passage="Isa 40.28" id="Isa.40.28"/><sup>28</sup>Hast thou not known? hast thou not heard? The everlasting God, Jehovah, the Creator of the ends of the earth, fainteth not,
neither is weary; there is no searching of his understanding. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.40.29" data-parsed="Isa_40_29_0_0" data-passage="Isa 40.29" id="Isa.40.29"/><sup>29</sup>He giveth power to the faint; and to him that hath no might he increaseth strength.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.40.30" data-parsed="Isa_40_30_0_0" data-passage="Isa 40.30" id="Isa.40.30"/><sup>30</sup>Even the youths shall faint and be weary, and the young men shall utterly fall: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.40.31" data-parsed="Isa_40_31_0_0" data-passage="Isa 40.31" id="Isa.40.31"/><sup>31</sup>but they that wait for Jehovah shall renew their strength; they shall mount up with wings as eagles; they shall run, and not be weary; they shall walk, and not faint.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>