<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Isaiah 43</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Isaiah 43</span></div><div data-next="Isa.44" data-prev="Isa.42" data-progress="59.86%" data-shorttitle="" id="Isa.43" title="Isaiah 43">
<h2 id="Isa.43-p0.1">43</h2>
<p id="Isa.43-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.43.1" data-parsed="Isa_43_1_0_0" data-passage="Isa 43.1" id="Isa.43.1"/><sup>1</sup>But now thus saith Jehovah that created thee, O Jacob, and he that formed thee, O Israel: Fear not, for I have redeemed thee; I have called thee by thy name, thou art mine. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.43.2" data-parsed="Isa_43_2_0_0" data-passage="Isa 43.2" id="Isa.43.2"/><sup>2</sup>When thou passest through the waters, I will be with thee; and through the rivers, they shall not overflow thee: when thou walkest through the fire, thou shalt not be burned, neither shall the flame kindle upon thee. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.43.3" data-parsed="Isa_43_3_0_0" data-passage="Isa 43.3" id="Isa.43.3"/><sup>3</sup>For I am Jehovah thy God, the Holy One of Israel, thy Saviour; I have given Egypt as thy ransom, Ethiopia and Seba in thy stead.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.43.4" data-parsed="Isa_43_4_0_0" data-passage="Isa 43.4" id="Isa.43.4"/><sup>4</sup>Since thou hast been precious in my sight, <i>and</i> honorable, and I have loved thee; therefore will I give men in thy stead, and peoples instead of thy life. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.43.5" data-parsed="Isa_43_5_0_0" data-passage="Isa 43.5" id="Isa.43.5"/><sup>5</sup>Fear not; for I am with thee: I will bring thy seed from the east, and gather thee from the west; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.43.6" data-parsed="Isa_43_6_0_0" data-passage="Isa 43.6" id="Isa.43.6"/><sup>6</sup>I will say to the north, Give up; and to the south, Keep not back; bring my sons from far, and my daughters from the end of the earth; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.43.7" data-parsed="Isa_43_7_0_0" data-passage="Isa 43.7" id="Isa.43.7"/><sup>7</sup>every one that is called by my name, and whom I have created for my glory, whom I have formed, yea, whom I have made.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.43.8" data-parsed="Isa_43_8_0_0" data-passage="Isa 43.8" id="Isa.43.8"/><sup>8</sup>Bring forth the blind people that have eyes, and the deaf that have ears. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.43.9" data-parsed="Isa_43_9_0_0" data-passage="Isa 43.9" id="Isa.43.9"/><sup>9</sup>Let all the nations be gathered together, and let the peoples be assembled: who among them can declare this, and show us former things? let them bring their witnesses, that they may be justified; or let them hear, and say, It is truth. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.43.10" data-parsed="Isa_43_10_0_0" data-passage="Isa 43.10" id="Isa.43.10"/><sup>10</sup>Ye are my witnesses, saith Jehovah, and my servant whom I have chosen; that ye may know and believe me, and understand that I am he: before me there was no God formed, neither shall there be after me.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.43.11" data-parsed="Isa_43_11_0_0" data-passage="Isa 43.11" id="Isa.43.11"/><sup>11</sup>I, even I, am Jehovah; and besides me there is no saviour. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.43.12" data-parsed="Isa_43_12_0_0" data-passage="Isa 43.12" id="Isa.43.12"/><sup>12</sup>I have declared, and I have saved, and I have showed; and there was no strange <i>god</i> among you: therefore ye are my witnesses, saith Jehovah, and I am God. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.43.13" data-parsed="Isa_43_13_0_0" data-passage="Isa 43.13" id="Isa.43.13"/><sup>13</sup>Yea, since the day was I am he; and there is none that can deliver out of my hand: I will work, and who can hinder it? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.43.14" data-parsed="Isa_43_14_0_0" data-passage="Isa 43.14" id="Isa.43.14"/><sup>14</sup>Thus saith Jehovah,
your Redeemer, the Holy One of Israel: For your sake I have sent to Babylon,
and I will bring down all of them as fugitives, even the Chaldeans, in the ships of their rejoicing. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.43.15" data-parsed="Isa_43_15_0_0" data-passage="Isa 43.15" id="Isa.43.15"/><sup>15</sup>I am Jehovah, your Holy One, the Creator of Israel, your King. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.43.16" data-parsed="Isa_43_16_0_0" data-passage="Isa 43.16" id="Isa.43.16"/><sup>16</sup>Thus saith Jehovah, who maketh a way in the sea, and a path in the mighty waters; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.43.17" data-parsed="Isa_43_17_0_0" data-passage="Isa 43.17" id="Isa.43.17"/><sup>17</sup>who bringeth forth the chariot and horse,
the army and the mighty man (they lie down together, they shall not rise;
they are extinct, they are quenched as a wick): 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.43.18" data-parsed="Isa_43_18_0_0" data-passage="Isa 43.18" id="Isa.43.18"/><sup>18</sup>Remember ye not the former things, neither consider the things of old. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.43.19" data-parsed="Isa_43_19_0_0" data-passage="Isa 43.19" id="Isa.43.19"/><sup>19</sup>Behold, I will do a new thing; now shall it spring forth; shall ye not know it? I will even make a way in the wilderness, and rivers in the desert. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.43.20" data-parsed="Isa_43_20_0_0" data-passage="Isa 43.20" id="Isa.43.20"/><sup>20</sup>The beasts of the field shall honor me, the jackals and the ostriches; because I give waters in the wilderness, and rivers in the desert, to give drink to my people, my chosen, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.43.21" data-parsed="Isa_43_21_0_0" data-passage="Isa 43.21" id="Isa.43.21"/><sup>21</sup>the people which I formed for myself, that they might set forth my praise. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.43.22" data-parsed="Isa_43_22_0_0" data-passage="Isa 43.22" id="Isa.43.22"/><sup>22</sup>Yet thou hast not called upon me, O Jacob; but thou hast been weary of me, O Israel. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.43.23" data-parsed="Isa_43_23_0_0" data-passage="Isa 43.23" id="Isa.43.23"/><sup>23</sup>Thou hast not brought me of thy sheep for burnt-offerings; neither hast thou honored me with thy sacrifices. I have not burdened thee with offerings, nor wearied thee with frankincense. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.43.24" data-parsed="Isa_43_24_0_0" data-passage="Isa 43.24" id="Isa.43.24"/><sup>24</sup>Thou hast bought me no sweet cane with money, neither hast thou filled me with the fat of thy sacrifices; but thou hast burdened me with thy sins, thou hast wearied me with thine iniquities. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.43.25" data-parsed="Isa_43_25_0_0" data-passage="Isa 43.25" id="Isa.43.25"/><sup>25</sup>I, even I, am he that blotteth out thy transgressions for mine own sake; and I will not remember thy sins.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.43.26" data-parsed="Isa_43_26_0_0" data-passage="Isa 43.26" id="Isa.43.26"/><sup>26</sup>Put me in remembrance; let us plead together: set thou forth <i>thy cause</i>, that thou mayest be justified. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.43.27" data-parsed="Isa_43_27_0_0" data-passage="Isa 43.27" id="Isa.43.27"/><sup>27</sup>Thy first father sinned, and thy teachers have transgressed against me. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.43.28" data-parsed="Isa_43_28_0_0" data-passage="Isa 43.28" id="Isa.43.28"/><sup>28</sup>Therefore I will profane the princes of the sanctuary; and I will make Jacob a curse, and Israel a reviling.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>