<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Isaiah 48</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Isaiah 48</span></div><div data-next="Isa.49" data-prev="Isa.47" data-progress="60.25%" data-shorttitle="" id="Isa.48" title="Isaiah 48">
<h2 id="Isa.48-p0.1">48</h2>
<p id="Isa.48-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.48.1" data-parsed="Isa_48_1_0_0" data-passage="Isa 48.1" id="Isa.48.1"/><sup>1</sup>Hear ye this, O house of Jacob, who are called by the name of Israel, and are come forth out of the waters of Judah; who swear by the name of Jehovah, and make mention of the God of Israel, but not in truth, nor in righteousness 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.48.2" data-parsed="Isa_48_2_0_0" data-passage="Isa 48.2" id="Isa.48.2"/><sup>2</sup>(for they call themselves of the holy city, and stay themselves upon the God of Israel; Jehovah of hosts is his name): 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.48.3" data-parsed="Isa_48_3_0_0" data-passage="Isa 48.3" id="Isa.48.3"/><sup>3</sup>I have declared the former things from of old; yea, they went forth out of my mouth,
and I showed them: suddenly I did them, and they came to pass. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.48.4" data-parsed="Isa_48_4_0_0" data-passage="Isa 48.4" id="Isa.48.4"/><sup>4</sup>Because I knew that thou art obstinate, and thy neck is an iron sinew, and thy brow brass; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.48.5" data-parsed="Isa_48_5_0_0" data-passage="Isa 48.5" id="Isa.48.5"/><sup>5</sup>therefore I have declared it to thee from of old; before it came to pass I showed it thee; lest thou shouldest say, Mine idol hath done them,
and my graven image, and my molten image, hath commanded them. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.48.6" data-parsed="Isa_48_6_0_0" data-passage="Isa 48.6" id="Isa.48.6"/><sup>6</sup>Thou hast heard it; behold all this; and ye, will ye not declare it? I have showed thee new things from this time, even hidden things, which thou hast not known.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.48.7" data-parsed="Isa_48_7_0_0" data-passage="Isa 48.7" id="Isa.48.7"/><sup>7</sup>They are created now, and not from of old; and before this day thou heardest them not; lest thou shouldest say, Behold, I knew them. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.48.8" data-parsed="Isa_48_8_0_0" data-passage="Isa 48.8" id="Isa.48.8"/><sup>8</sup>Yea,
thou heardest not; yea, thou knewest not; yea, from of old thine ear was not opened: for I knew that thou didst deal very treacherously, and wast called a transgressor from the womb. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.48.9" data-parsed="Isa_48_9_0_0" data-passage="Isa 48.9" id="Isa.48.9"/><sup>9</sup>For my name's sake will I defer mine anger,
and for my praise will I refrain for thee, that I cut thee not off.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.48.10" data-parsed="Isa_48_10_0_0" data-passage="Isa 48.10" id="Isa.48.10"/><sup>10</sup>Behold, I have refined thee, but not as silver; I have chosen thee in the furnace of affliction. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.48.11" data-parsed="Isa_48_11_0_0" data-passage="Isa 48.11" id="Isa.48.11"/><sup>11</sup>For mine own sake, for mine own sake, will I do it; for how should <i>my name</i> be profaned? and my glory will I not give to another. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.48.12" data-parsed="Isa_48_12_0_0" data-passage="Isa 48.12" id="Isa.48.12"/><sup>12</sup>Hearken unto me, O Jacob, and Israel my called: I am he; I am the first, I also am the last. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.48.13" data-parsed="Isa_48_13_0_0" data-passage="Isa 48.13" id="Isa.48.13"/><sup>13</sup>Yea, my hand hath laid the foundation of the earth, and my right hand hath spread out the heavens: when I call unto them, they stand up together. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.48.14" data-parsed="Isa_48_14_0_0" data-passage="Isa 48.14" id="Isa.48.14"/><sup>14</sup>Assemble yourselves, all ye,
and hear; who among them hath declared these things? He whom Jehovah loveth shall perform his pleasure on Babylon, and his arm <i>shall be on</i> the Chaldeans. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.48.15" data-parsed="Isa_48_15_0_0" data-passage="Isa 48.15" id="Isa.48.15"/><sup>15</sup>I, even I, have spoken; yea, I have called him; I have brought him, and he shall make his way prosperous. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.48.16" data-parsed="Isa_48_16_0_0" data-passage="Isa 48.16" id="Isa.48.16"/><sup>16</sup>Come ye near unto me, hear ye this; from the beginning I have not spoken in secret; from the time that it was, there am I: and now the Lord Jehovah hath sent me, and his Spirit. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.48.17" data-parsed="Isa_48_17_0_0" data-passage="Isa 48.17" id="Isa.48.17"/><sup>17</sup>Thus saith Jehovah, thy Redeemer, the Holy One of Israel: I am Jehovah thy God, who teacheth thee to profit, who leadeth thee by the way that thou shouldest go. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.48.18" data-parsed="Isa_48_18_0_0" data-passage="Isa 48.18" id="Isa.48.18"/><sup>18</sup>Oh that thou hadst hearkened to my commandments! then had thy peace been as a river, and thy righteousness as the waves of the sea: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.48.19" data-parsed="Isa_48_19_0_0" data-passage="Isa 48.19" id="Isa.48.19"/><sup>19</sup>thy seed also had been as the sand, and the offspring of thy bowels like the grains thereof: his name would not be cut off nor destroyed from before me. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.48.20" data-parsed="Isa_48_20_0_0" data-passage="Isa 48.20" id="Isa.48.20"/><sup>20</sup>Go ye forth from Babylon, flee ye from the Chaldeans; with a voice of singing declare ye, tell this, utter it even to the end of the earth: say ye, Jehovah hath redeemed his servant Jacob. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.48.21" data-parsed="Isa_48_21_0_0" data-passage="Isa 48.21" id="Isa.48.21"/><sup>21</sup>And they thirsted not when he led them through the deserts; he caused the waters to flow out of the rock for them; he clave the rock also,
and the waters gushed out. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.48.22" data-parsed="Isa_48_22_0_0" data-passage="Isa 48.22" id="Isa.48.22"/><sup>22</sup>There is no peace, saith Jehovah, to the wicked.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>