<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Isaiah 50</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Isaiah 50</span></div><div data-next="Isa.51" data-prev="Isa.49" data-progress="60.43%" data-shorttitle="" id="Isa.50" title="Isaiah 50">
<h2 id="Isa.50-p0.1">50</h2>
<p id="Isa.50-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.50.1" data-parsed="Isa_50_1_0_0" data-passage="Isa 50.1" id="Isa.50.1"/><sup>1</sup>Thus saith Jehovah, Where is the bill of your mother's divorcement, wherewith I have put her away? or which of my creditors is it to whom I have sold you? Behold, for your iniquities were ye sold, and for your transgressions was your mother put away. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.50.2" data-parsed="Isa_50_2_0_0" data-passage="Isa 50.2" id="Isa.50.2"/><sup>2</sup>Wherefore, when I came, was there no man? when I called, was there none to answer? Is my hand shortened at all, that it cannot redeem? or have I no power to deliver? Behold, at my rebuke I dry up the sea, I make the rivers a wilderness: their fish stink,
because there is no water, and die for thirst. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.50.3" data-parsed="Isa_50_3_0_0" data-passage="Isa 50.3" id="Isa.50.3"/><sup>3</sup>I clothe the heavens with blackness, and I make sackcloth their covering. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.50.4" data-parsed="Isa_50_4_0_0" data-passage="Isa 50.4" id="Isa.50.4"/><sup>4</sup>The Lord Jehovah hath given me the tongue of them that are taught, that I may know how to sustain with words him that is weary: he wakeneth morning by morning, he wakeneth mine ear to hear as they that are taught. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.50.5" data-parsed="Isa_50_5_0_0" data-passage="Isa 50.5" id="Isa.50.5"/><sup>5</sup>The Lord Jehovah hath opened mine ear, and I was not rebellious, neither turned away backward. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.50.6" data-parsed="Isa_50_6_0_0" data-passage="Isa 50.6" id="Isa.50.6"/><sup>6</sup>I gave my back to the smiters, and my cheeks to them that plucked off the hair; I hid not my face from shame and spitting. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.50.7" data-parsed="Isa_50_7_0_0" data-passage="Isa 50.7" id="Isa.50.7"/><sup>7</sup>For the Lord Jehovah will help me; therefore have I not been confounded: therefore have I set my face like a flint, and I know that I shall not be put to shame. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.50.8" data-parsed="Isa_50_8_0_0" data-passage="Isa 50.8" id="Isa.50.8"/><sup>8</sup>He is near that justifieth me; who will content with me? let us stand up together: who is mine adversary? let him come near to me. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.50.9" data-parsed="Isa_50_9_0_0" data-passage="Isa 50.9" id="Isa.50.9"/><sup>9</sup>Behold, the Lord Jehovah will help me; who is he that shall condemn me? behold, all they shall wax old as a garment, the moth shall eat them up. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.50.10" data-parsed="Isa_50_10_0_0" data-passage="Isa 50.10" id="Isa.50.10"/><sup>10</sup>Who is among you that feareth Jehovah, that obeyeth the voice of his servant? he that walketh in darkness,
and hath no light, let him trust in the name of Jehovah, and rely upon his God. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.50.11" data-parsed="Isa_50_11_0_0" data-passage="Isa 50.11" id="Isa.50.11"/><sup>11</sup>Behold, all ye that kindle a fire, that gird yourselves about with firebrands; walk ye in the flame of your fire, and among the brands that ye have kindled. This shall ye have of my hand; ye shall lie down in sorrow.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>