<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Isaiah 53</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Isaiah 53</span></div><div data-next="Isa.54" data-prev="Isa.52" data-progress="60.62%" data-shorttitle="" id="Isa.53" title="Isaiah 53">
<h2 id="Isa.53-p0.1">53</h2>
<p id="Isa.53-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.53.1" data-parsed="Isa_53_1_0_0" data-passage="Isa 53.1" id="Isa.53.1"/><sup>1</sup>Who hath believed our message? and to whom hath the arm of Jehovah been revealed? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.53.2" data-parsed="Isa_53_2_0_0" data-passage="Isa 53.2" id="Isa.53.2"/><sup>2</sup>For he grew up before him as a tender plant, and as a root out of a dry ground: he hath no form nor comeliness; and when we see him, there is no beauty that we should desire him. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.53.3" data-parsed="Isa_53_3_0_0" data-passage="Isa 53.3" id="Isa.53.3"/><sup>3</sup>He was despised, and rejected of men; a man of sorrows, and acquainted with grief: and as one from whom men hide their face he was despised; and we esteemed him not.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.53.4" data-parsed="Isa_53_4_0_0" data-passage="Isa 53.4" id="Isa.53.4"/><sup>4</sup>Surely he hath borne our griefs, and carried our sorrows; yet we did esteem him stricken, smitten of God, and afflicted. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.53.5" data-parsed="Isa_53_5_0_0" data-passage="Isa 53.5" id="Isa.53.5"/><sup>5</sup>But he was wounded for our transgressions, he was bruised for our iniquities; the chastisement of our peace was upon him; and with his stripes we are healed. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.53.6" data-parsed="Isa_53_6_0_0" data-passage="Isa 53.6" id="Isa.53.6"/><sup>6</sup>All we like sheep have gone astray; we have turned every one to his own way; and Jehovah hath laid on him the iniquity of us all. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.53.7" data-parsed="Isa_53_7_0_0" data-passage="Isa 53.7" id="Isa.53.7"/><sup>7</sup>He was oppressed, yet when he was afflicted he opened not his mouth; as a lamb that is led to the slaughter, and as a sheep that before its shearers is dumb, so he opened not his mouth. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.53.8" data-parsed="Isa_53_8_0_0" data-passage="Isa 53.8" id="Isa.53.8"/><sup>8</sup>By oppression and judgment he was taken away; and as for his generation, who <i>among them</i> considered that he was cut off out of the land of the living for the transgression of my people to whom the stroke <i>was due</i>? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.53.9" data-parsed="Isa_53_9_0_0" data-passage="Isa 53.9" id="Isa.53.9"/><sup>9</sup>And they made his grave with the wicked, and with a rich man in his death; although he had done no violence, neither was any deceit in his mouth. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.53.10" data-parsed="Isa_53_10_0_0" data-passage="Isa 53.10" id="Isa.53.10"/><sup>10</sup>Yet it pleased Jehovah to bruise him; he hath put him to grief: when thou shalt make his soul an offering for sin, he shall see <i>his</i> seed, he shall prolong his days, and the pleasure of Jehovah shall prosper in his hand. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.53.11" data-parsed="Isa_53_11_0_0" data-passage="Isa 53.11" id="Isa.53.11"/><sup>11</sup>He shall see of the travail of his soul,
<i>and</i> shall be satisfied: by the knowledge of himself shall my righteous servant justify many; and he shall bear their iniquities.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.53.12" data-parsed="Isa_53_12_0_0" data-passage="Isa 53.12" id="Isa.53.12"/><sup>12</sup>Therefore will I divide him a portion with the great, and he shall divide the spoil with the strong; because he poured out his soul unto death,
and was numbered with the transgressors: yet he bare the sin of many, and made intercession for the transgressors.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>