<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Isaiah 58</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Isaiah 58</span></div><div data-next="Isa.59" data-prev="Isa.57" data-progress="60.90%" data-shorttitle="" id="Isa.58" title="Isaiah 58">
<h2 id="Isa.58-p0.1">58</h2>
<p id="Isa.58-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.58.1" data-parsed="Isa_58_1_0_0" data-passage="Isa 58.1" id="Isa.58.1"/><sup>1</sup>Cry aloud, spare not, lift up thy voice like a trumpet, and declare unto my people their transgression, and to the house of Jacob their sins. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.58.2" data-parsed="Isa_58_2_0_0" data-passage="Isa 58.2" id="Isa.58.2"/><sup>2</sup>Yet they seek me daily, and delight to know my ways: as a nation that did righteousness, and forsook not the ordinance of their God, they ask of me righteous judgments; they delight to draw near unto God. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.58.3" data-parsed="Isa_58_3_0_0" data-passage="Isa 58.3" id="Isa.58.3"/><sup>3</sup>Wherefore have we fasted, <i>say they</i>, and thou seest not? <i>wherefore</i> have we afflicted our soul, and thou takest no knowledge? Behold, in the day of your fast ye find <i>your own</i> pleasure, and exact all your labors.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.58.4" data-parsed="Isa_58_4_0_0" data-passage="Isa 58.4" id="Isa.58.4"/><sup>4</sup>Behold, ye fast for strife and contention, and to smite with the fist of wickedness: ye fast not this day so as to make your voice to be heard on high. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.58.5" data-parsed="Isa_58_5_0_0" data-passage="Isa 58.5" id="Isa.58.5"/><sup>5</sup>Is such the fast that I have chosen? the day for a man to afflict his soul? Is it to bow down his head as a rush, and to spread sackcloth and ashes under him? wilt thou call this a fast, and an acceptable day to Jehovah? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.58.6" data-parsed="Isa_58_6_0_0" data-passage="Isa 58.6" id="Isa.58.6"/><sup>6</sup>Is not this the fast that I have chosen: to loose the bonds of wickedness, to undo the bands of the yoke, and to let the oppressed go free,
and that ye break every yoke? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.58.7" data-parsed="Isa_58_7_0_0" data-passage="Isa 58.7" id="Isa.58.7"/><sup>7</sup>Is it not to deal thy bread to the hungry,
and that thou bring the poor that are cast out to thy house? when thou seest the naked, that thou cover him; and that thou hide not thyself from thine own flesh? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.58.8" data-parsed="Isa_58_8_0_0" data-passage="Isa 58.8" id="Isa.58.8"/><sup>8</sup>Then shall thy light break forth as the morning, and thy healing shall spring forth speedily; and thy righteousness shall go before thee; the glory of Jehovah shall by thy rearward. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.58.9" data-parsed="Isa_58_9_0_0" data-passage="Isa 58.9" id="Isa.58.9"/><sup>9</sup>Then shalt thou call, and Jehovah will answer; thou shalt cry, and he will say, Here I am. If thou take away from the midst of thee the yoke, the putting forth of the finger, and speaking wickedly; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.58.10" data-parsed="Isa_58_10_0_0" data-passage="Isa 58.10" id="Isa.58.10"/><sup>10</sup>and if thou draw out thy soul to the hungry, and satisfy the afflicted soul: then shall thy light rise in darkness, and thine obscurity be as the noonday; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.58.11" data-parsed="Isa_58_11_0_0" data-passage="Isa 58.11" id="Isa.58.11"/><sup>11</sup>and Jehovah will guide thee continually,
and satisfy thy soul in dry places, and make strong thy bones; and thou shalt be like a watered garden, and like a spring of water, whose waters fail not.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.58.12" data-parsed="Isa_58_12_0_0" data-passage="Isa 58.12" id="Isa.58.12"/><sup>12</sup>And they that shall be of thee shall build the old waste places; thou shalt raise up the foundations of many generations; and thou shalt be called The repairer of the breach, The restorer of paths to dwell in. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.58.13" data-parsed="Isa_58_13_0_0" data-passage="Isa 58.13" id="Isa.58.13"/><sup>13</sup>If thou turn away thy foot from the sabbath, from doing thy pleasure on my holy day;
and call the sabbath a delight, <i>and</i> the holy of Jehovah honorable;
and shalt honor it, not doing thine own ways, nor finding thine own pleasure,
nor speaking <i>thine own</i> words: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.58.14" data-parsed="Isa_58_14_0_0" data-passage="Isa 58.14" id="Isa.58.14"/><sup>14</sup>then shalt thou delight thyself in Jehovah; and I will make thee to ride upon the high places of the earth;
and I will feed thee with the heritage of Jacob thy father: for the mouth of Jehovah hath spoken it.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>