<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Isaiah 57</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Isaiah 57</span></div><div data-next="Isa.58" data-prev="Isa.56" data-progress="60.83%" data-shorttitle="" id="Isa.57" title="Isaiah 57">
<h2 id="Isa.57-p0.1">57</h2>
<p id="Isa.57-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.57.1" data-parsed="Isa_57_1_0_0" data-passage="Isa 57.1" id="Isa.57.1"/><sup>1</sup>The righteous perisheth, and no man layeth it to heart; and merciful men are taken away, none considering that the righteous is taken away from the evil <i>to come</i>. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.57.2" data-parsed="Isa_57_2_0_0" data-passage="Isa 57.2" id="Isa.57.2"/><sup>2</sup>He entereth into peace; they rest in their beds, each one that walketh in his uprightness. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.57.3" data-parsed="Isa_57_3_0_0" data-passage="Isa 57.3" id="Isa.57.3"/><sup>3</sup>But draw near hither, ye sons of the sorceress, the seed of the adulterer and the harlot.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.57.4" data-parsed="Isa_57_4_0_0" data-passage="Isa 57.4" id="Isa.57.4"/><sup>4</sup>Against whom do ye sport yourselves? against whom make ye a wide mouth,
and put out the tongue? are ye not children of transgression, a seed of falsehood, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.57.5" data-parsed="Isa_57_5_0_0" data-passage="Isa 57.5" id="Isa.57.5"/><sup>5</sup>ye that inflame yourselves among the oaks, under every green tree; that slay the children in the valleys, under the clefts of the rocks?

<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.57.6" data-parsed="Isa_57_6_0_0" data-passage="Isa 57.6" id="Isa.57.6"/><sup>6</sup>Among the smooth <i>stones</i> of the valley is thy portion; they, they are thy lot; even to them hast thou poured a drink-offering, thou hast offered an oblation. Shall I be appeased for these things? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.57.7" data-parsed="Isa_57_7_0_0" data-passage="Isa 57.7" id="Isa.57.7"/><sup>7</sup>Upon a high and lofty mountain hast thou set thy bed; thither also wentest thou up to offer sacrifice. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.57.8" data-parsed="Isa_57_8_0_0" data-passage="Isa 57.8" id="Isa.57.8"/><sup>8</sup>And behind the doors and the posts hast thou set up thy memorial: for thou hast uncovered <i>thyself</i> to another than me, and art gone up; thou hast enlarged thy bed, and made thee a covenant with them: thou lovedst their bed where thou sawest it. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.57.9" data-parsed="Isa_57_9_0_0" data-passage="Isa 57.9" id="Isa.57.9"/><sup>9</sup>And thou wentest to the king with oil, and didst increase thy perfumes, and didst send thine ambassadors far off, and didst debase thyself even unto Sheol. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.57.10" data-parsed="Isa_57_10_0_0" data-passage="Isa 57.10" id="Isa.57.10"/><sup>10</sup>Thou wast wearied with the length of thy way; yet saidst thou not, It is in vain: thou didst find a quickening of thy strength; therefore thou wast not faint. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.57.11" data-parsed="Isa_57_11_0_0" data-passage="Isa 57.11" id="Isa.57.11"/><sup>11</sup>And of whom hast thou been afraid and in fear, that thou liest, and hast not remembered me, nor laid it to thy heart? have not I held my peace even of long time, and thou fearest me not? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.57.12" data-parsed="Isa_57_12_0_0" data-passage="Isa 57.12" id="Isa.57.12"/><sup>12</sup>I will declare thy righteousness;
and as for thy works, they shall not profit thee. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.57.13" data-parsed="Isa_57_13_0_0" data-passage="Isa 57.13" id="Isa.57.13"/><sup>13</sup>When thou criest, let them that thou hast gathered deliver thee; but the wind shall take them, a breath shall carry them all away: but he that taketh refuge in me shall possess the land, and shall inherit my holy mountain. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.57.14" data-parsed="Isa_57_14_0_0" data-passage="Isa 57.14" id="Isa.57.14"/><sup>14</sup>And he will say,
Cast ye up, cast ye up, prepare the way, take up the stumbling-block out of the way of my people. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.57.15" data-parsed="Isa_57_15_0_0" data-passage="Isa 57.15" id="Isa.57.15"/><sup>15</sup>For thus saith the high and lofty One that inhabiteth eternity, whose name is Holy: I dwell in the high and holy place,
with him also that is of a contrite and humble spirit, to revive the spirit of the humble, and to revive the heart of the contrite. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.57.16" data-parsed="Isa_57_16_0_0" data-passage="Isa 57.16" id="Isa.57.16"/><sup>16</sup>For I will not contend for ever, neither will I be always wroth; for the spirit would faint before me, and the souls that I have made. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.57.17" data-parsed="Isa_57_17_0_0" data-passage="Isa 57.17" id="Isa.57.17"/><sup>17</sup>For the iniquity of his covetousness was I wroth, and smote him; I hid <i>my face</i> and was wroth;
and he went on backsliding in the way of his heart. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.57.18" data-parsed="Isa_57_18_0_0" data-passage="Isa 57.18" id="Isa.57.18"/><sup>18</sup>I have seen his ways, and will heal him: I will lead him also, and restore comforts unto him and to his mourners. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.57.19" data-parsed="Isa_57_19_0_0" data-passage="Isa 57.19" id="Isa.57.19"/><sup>19</sup>I create the fruit of the lips: Peace, peace, to him that is far off and to him that is near, saith Jehovah; and I will heal him. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.57.20" data-parsed="Isa_57_20_0_0" data-passage="Isa 57.20" id="Isa.57.20"/><sup>20</sup>But the wicked are like the troubled sea; for it cannot rest, and its waters cast up mire and dirt. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.57.21" data-parsed="Isa_57_21_0_0" data-passage="Isa 57.21" id="Isa.57.21"/><sup>21</sup>There is no peace, saith my God, to the wicked.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>