<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Isaiah 55</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Isaiah 55</span></div><div data-next="Isa.56" data-prev="Isa.54" data-progress="60.74%" data-shorttitle="" id="Isa.55" title="Isaiah 55">
<h2 id="Isa.55-p0.1">55</h2>
<p id="Isa.55-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.55.1" data-parsed="Isa_55_1_0_0" data-passage="Isa 55.1" id="Isa.55.1"/><sup>1</sup>Ho, every one that thirsteth, come ye to the waters, and he that hath no money; come ye, buy, and eat; yea, come, buy wine and milk without money and without price. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.55.2" data-parsed="Isa_55_2_0_0" data-passage="Isa 55.2" id="Isa.55.2"/><sup>2</sup>Wherefore do ye spend money for that which is not bread? and your labor for that which satisfieth not? hearken diligently unto me, and eat ye that which is good, and let your soul delight itself in fatness. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.55.3" data-parsed="Isa_55_3_0_0" data-passage="Isa 55.3" id="Isa.55.3"/><sup>3</sup>Incline your ear, and come unto me; hear, and your soul shall live: and I will make an everlasting covenant with you, even the sure mercies of David. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.55.4" data-parsed="Isa_55_4_0_0" data-passage="Isa 55.4" id="Isa.55.4"/><sup>4</sup>Behold, I have given him for a witness to the peoples, a leader and commander to the peoples. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.55.5" data-parsed="Isa_55_5_0_0" data-passage="Isa 55.5" id="Isa.55.5"/><sup>5</sup>Behold, thou shalt call a nation that thou knowest not; and a nation that knew not thee shall run unto thee,
because of Jehovah thy God, and for the Holy One of Israel; for he hath glorified thee. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.55.6" data-parsed="Isa_55_6_0_0" data-passage="Isa 55.6" id="Isa.55.6"/><sup>6</sup>Seek ye Jehovah while he may be found; call ye upon him while he is near: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.55.7" data-parsed="Isa_55_7_0_0" data-passage="Isa 55.7" id="Isa.55.7"/><sup>7</sup>let the wicked forsake his way, and the unrighteous man his thoughts; and let him return unto Jehovah, and he will have mercy upon him; and to our God, for he will abundantly pardon. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.55.8" data-parsed="Isa_55_8_0_0" data-passage="Isa 55.8" id="Isa.55.8"/><sup>8</sup>For my thoughts are not your thoughts, neither are your ways my ways, saith Jehovah. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.55.9" data-parsed="Isa_55_9_0_0" data-passage="Isa 55.9" id="Isa.55.9"/><sup>9</sup>For as the heavens are higher than the earth, so are my ways higher than your ways, and my thoughts than your thoughts. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.55.10" data-parsed="Isa_55_10_0_0" data-passage="Isa 55.10" id="Isa.55.10"/><sup>10</sup>For as the rain cometh down and the snow from heaven, and returneth not thither, but watereth the earth,
and maketh it bring forth and bud, and giveth seed to the sower and bread to the eater; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.55.11" data-parsed="Isa_55_11_0_0" data-passage="Isa 55.11" id="Isa.55.11"/><sup>11</sup>so shall my word be that goeth forth out of my mouth: it shall not return unto me void, but it shall accomplish that which I please,
and it shall prosper in the thing whereto I sent it. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.55.12" data-parsed="Isa_55_12_0_0" data-passage="Isa 55.12" id="Isa.55.12"/><sup>12</sup>For ye shall go out with joy, and be led forth with peace: the mountains and the hills shall break forth before you into singing; and all the trees of the fields shall clap their hands. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.55.13" data-parsed="Isa_55_13_0_0" data-passage="Isa 55.13" id="Isa.55.13"/><sup>13</sup>Instead of the thorn shall come up the fir-tree; and instead of the brier shall come up the myrtle-tree: and it shall be to Jehovah for a name, for an everlasting sign that shall not be cut off.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>