<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Isaiah 6</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Isaiah 6</span></div><div data-next="Isa.7" data-prev="Isa.5" data-progress="57.29%" data-shorttitle="" id="Isa.6" title="Isaiah 6">
<h2 id="Isa.6-p0.1">6</h2>
<p id="Isa.6-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.6.1" data-parsed="Isa_6_1_0_0" data-passage="Isa 6.1" id="Isa.6.1"/><sup>1</sup>In the year that king Uzziah died I saw the Lord sitting upon a throne, high and lifted up; and his train filled the temple. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.6.2" data-parsed="Isa_6_2_0_0" data-passage="Isa 6.2" id="Isa.6.2"/><sup>2</sup>Above him stood the seraphim: each one had six wings; with twain he covered his face,
and with twain he covered his feet, and with twain he did fly. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.6.3" data-parsed="Isa_6_3_0_0" data-passage="Isa 6.3" id="Isa.6.3"/><sup>3</sup>And one cried unto another, and said, Holy, holy, holy, is Jehovah of hosts: the whole earth is full of his glory. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.6.4" data-parsed="Isa_6_4_0_0" data-passage="Isa 6.4" id="Isa.6.4"/><sup>4</sup>And the foundations of the thresholds shook at the voice of him that cried, and the house was filled with smoke.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.6.5" data-parsed="Isa_6_5_0_0" data-passage="Isa 6.5" id="Isa.6.5"/><sup>5</sup>Then said I, Woe is me! for I am undone; because I am a man of unclean lips, and I dwell in the midst of a people of unclean lips: for mine eyes have seen the King, Jehovah of hosts. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.6.6" data-parsed="Isa_6_6_0_0" data-passage="Isa 6.6" id="Isa.6.6"/><sup>6</sup>Then flew one of the seraphim unto me, having a live coal in his hand, which he had taken with the tongs from off the altar: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.6.7" data-parsed="Isa_6_7_0_0" data-passage="Isa 6.7" id="Isa.6.7"/><sup>7</sup>and he touched my mouth with it, and said, Lo, this hath touched thy lips; and thine iniquity is taken away, and thy sin forgiven.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.6.8" data-parsed="Isa_6_8_0_0" data-passage="Isa 6.8" id="Isa.6.8"/><sup>8</sup>And I heard the voice of the Lord, saying, Whom shall I send, and who will go for us? Then I said, Here am I; send me. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.6.9" data-parsed="Isa_6_9_0_0" data-passage="Isa 6.9" id="Isa.6.9"/><sup>9</sup>And he said, Go, and tell this people, Hear ye indeed, but understand not; and see ye indeed, but perceive not. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.6.10" data-parsed="Isa_6_10_0_0" data-passage="Isa 6.10" id="Isa.6.10"/><sup>10</sup>Make the heart of this people fat, and make their ears heavy, and shut their eyes; lest they sea with their eyes, and hear with their ears, and understand with their heart, and turn again, and be healed.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.6.11" data-parsed="Isa_6_11_0_0" data-passage="Isa 6.11" id="Isa.6.11"/><sup>11</sup>Then said I, Lord, how long? And he answered, Until cities be waste without inhabitant, and houses without man, and the land become utterly waste, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.6.12" data-parsed="Isa_6_12_0_0" data-passage="Isa 6.12" id="Isa.6.12"/><sup>12</sup>and Jehovah have removed men far away, and the forsaken places be many in the midst of the land. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.6.13" data-parsed="Isa_6_13_0_0" data-passage="Isa 6.13" id="Isa.6.13"/><sup>13</sup>And if there be yet a tenth in it, it also shall in turn be eaten up: as a terebinth, and as an oak, whose stock remaineth, when they are felled; so the holy seed is the stock thereof.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>