<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Isaiah 64</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Isaiah 64</span></div><div data-next="Isa.65" data-prev="Isa.63" data-progress="61.29%" data-shorttitle="" id="Isa.64" title="Isaiah 64">
<h2 id="Isa.64-p0.1">64</h2>
<p id="Isa.64-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.64.1" data-parsed="Isa_64_1_0_0" data-passage="Isa 64.1" id="Isa.64.1"/><sup>1</sup>Oh that thou wouldest rend the heavens, that thou wouldest come down, that the mountains might quake at thy presence, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.64.2" data-parsed="Isa_64_2_0_0" data-passage="Isa 64.2" id="Isa.64.2"/><sup>2</sup>as when fire kindleth the brushwood, <i>and</i> the fire causeth the waters to boil; to make thy name known to thine adversaries, that the nations may tremble at thy presence! 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.64.3" data-parsed="Isa_64_3_0_0" data-passage="Isa 64.3" id="Isa.64.3"/><sup>3</sup>When thou didst terrible things which we looked not for, thou camest down, the mountains quaked at thy presence. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.64.4" data-parsed="Isa_64_4_0_0" data-passage="Isa 64.4" id="Isa.64.4"/><sup>4</sup>For from of old men have not heard, nor perceived by the ear, neither hath the eye seen a God besides thee, who worketh for him that waiteth for him. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.64.5" data-parsed="Isa_64_5_0_0" data-passage="Isa 64.5" id="Isa.64.5"/><sup>5</sup>Thou meetest him that rejoiceth and worketh righteousness, those that remember thee in thy ways: behold, thou wast wroth, and we sinned: in them <i>have we been</i> of long time; and shall we be saved? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.64.6" data-parsed="Isa_64_6_0_0" data-passage="Isa 64.6" id="Isa.64.6"/><sup>6</sup>For we are all become as one that is unclean, and all our righteousnesses are as a polluted garment: and we all do fade as a leaf; and our iniquities, like the wind, take us away. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.64.7" data-parsed="Isa_64_7_0_0" data-passage="Isa 64.7" id="Isa.64.7"/><sup>7</sup>And there is none that calleth upon thy name, that stirreth up himself to take hold of thee; for thou hast hid thy face from us, and hast consumed us by means of our iniquities. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.64.8" data-parsed="Isa_64_8_0_0" data-passage="Isa 64.8" id="Isa.64.8"/><sup>8</sup>But now, O Jehovah, thou art our Father; we are the clay, and thou our potter; and we all are the work of thy hand. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.64.9" data-parsed="Isa_64_9_0_0" data-passage="Isa 64.9" id="Isa.64.9"/><sup>9</sup>Be not wroth very sore, O Jehovah, neither remember iniquity for ever: behold,
look, we beseech thee, we are all thy people. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.64.10" data-parsed="Isa_64_10_0_0" data-passage="Isa 64.10" id="Isa.64.10"/><sup>10</sup>Thy holy cities are become a wilderness, Zion is become a wilderness, Jerusalem a desolation.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.64.11" data-parsed="Isa_64_11_0_0" data-passage="Isa 64.11" id="Isa.64.11"/><sup>11</sup>Our holy and our beautiful house, where our fathers praised thee, is burned with fire; and all our pleasant places are laid waste. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.64.12" data-parsed="Isa_64_12_0_0" data-passage="Isa 64.12" id="Isa.64.12"/><sup>12</sup>Wilt thou refrain thyself for these things, O Jehovah? wilt thou hold thy peace, and afflict us very sore?</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>