<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Isaiah 62</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Isaiah 62</span></div><div data-next="Isa.63" data-prev="Isa.61" data-progress="61.17%" data-shorttitle="" id="Isa.62" title="Isaiah 62">
<h2 id="Isa.62-p0.1">62</h2>
<p id="Isa.62-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.62.1" data-parsed="Isa_62_1_0_0" data-passage="Isa 62.1" id="Isa.62.1"/><sup>1</sup>For Zion's sake will I not hold my peace, and for Jerusalem's sake I will not rest, until her righteousness go forth as brightness, and her salvation as a lamp that burneth. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.62.2" data-parsed="Isa_62_2_0_0" data-passage="Isa 62.2" id="Isa.62.2"/><sup>2</sup>And the nations shall see thy righteousness, and all kings thy glory, and thou shalt be called by a new name, which the mouth of Jehovah shall name. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.62.3" data-parsed="Isa_62_3_0_0" data-passage="Isa 62.3" id="Isa.62.3"/><sup>3</sup>Thou shalt also be a crown of beauty in the hand of Jehovah, and a royal diadem in the hand of thy God.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.62.4" data-parsed="Isa_62_4_0_0" data-passage="Isa 62.4" id="Isa.62.4"/><sup>4</sup>Thou shalt no more be termed Forsaken; neither shall thy land any more be termed Desolate: but thou shalt be called Hephzi-bah, and thy land Beulah;
for Jehovah delighteth in thee, and thy land shall be married. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.62.5" data-parsed="Isa_62_5_0_0" data-passage="Isa 62.5" id="Isa.62.5"/><sup>5</sup>For as a young man marrieth a virgin, so shall thy sons marry thee; and as the bridegroom rejoiceth over the bride, so shall thy God rejoice over thee.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.62.6" data-parsed="Isa_62_6_0_0" data-passage="Isa 62.6" id="Isa.62.6"/><sup>6</sup>I have set watchmen upon thy walls, O Jerusalem; they shall never hold their peace day nor night: ye that are Jehovah's remembrancers, take ye no rest, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.62.7" data-parsed="Isa_62_7_0_0" data-passage="Isa 62.7" id="Isa.62.7"/><sup>7</sup>and give him no rest, till he establish, and till he make Jerusalem a praise in the earth. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.62.8" data-parsed="Isa_62_8_0_0" data-passage="Isa 62.8" id="Isa.62.8"/><sup>8</sup>Jehovah hath sworn by his right hand,
and by the arm of his strength, Surely I will no more give thy grain to be food for thine enemies; and foreigners shall not drink thy new wine, for which thou hast labored: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.62.9" data-parsed="Isa_62_9_0_0" data-passage="Isa 62.9" id="Isa.62.9"/><sup>9</sup>but they that have garnered it shall eat it,
and praise Jehovah; and they that have gathered it shall drink it in the courts of my sanctuary. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.62.10" data-parsed="Isa_62_10_0_0" data-passage="Isa 62.10" id="Isa.62.10"/><sup>10</sup>Go through, go through the gates; prepare ye the way of the people; cast up, cast up the highway; gather out the stones;
lift up an ensign for the peoples. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.62.11" data-parsed="Isa_62_11_0_0" data-passage="Isa 62.11" id="Isa.62.11"/><sup>11</sup>Behold, Jehovah hath proclaimed unto the end of the earth, Say ye to the daughter of Zion, Behold, thy salvation cometh; behold, his reward is with him, and his recompense before him.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.62.12" data-parsed="Isa_62_12_0_0" data-passage="Isa 62.12" id="Isa.62.12"/><sup>12</sup>And they shall call them The holy people, The redeemed of Jehovah: and thou shalt be called Sought out, A city not forsaken.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>