<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Isaiah 61</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Isaiah 61</span></div><div data-next="Isa.62" data-prev="Isa.60" data-progress="61.12%" data-shorttitle="" id="Isa.61" title="Isaiah 61">
<h2 id="Isa.61-p0.1">61</h2>
<p id="Isa.61-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.61.1" data-parsed="Isa_61_1_0_0" data-passage="Isa 61.1" id="Isa.61.1"/><sup>1</sup>The Spirit of the Lord Jehovah is upon me; because Jehovah hath anointed me to preach good tidings unto the meek; he hath sent me to bind up the broken-hearted, to proclaim liberty to the captives, and the opening <i>of the prison</i> to them that are bound; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.61.2" data-parsed="Isa_61_2_0_0" data-passage="Isa 61.2" id="Isa.61.2"/><sup>2</sup>to proclaim the year of Jehovah's favor, and the day of vengeance of our God; to comfort all that mourn; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.61.3" data-parsed="Isa_61_3_0_0" data-passage="Isa 61.3" id="Isa.61.3"/><sup>3</sup>to appoint unto them that mourn in Zion, to give unto them a garland for ashes, the oil of joy for mourning, the garment of praise for the spirit of heaviness; that they may be called trees of righteousness, the planting of Jehovah, that he may be glorified. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.61.4" data-parsed="Isa_61_4_0_0" data-passage="Isa 61.4" id="Isa.61.4"/><sup>4</sup>And they shall build the old wastes, they shall raise up the former desolations, and they shall repair the waste cities, the desolations of many generations. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.61.5" data-parsed="Isa_61_5_0_0" data-passage="Isa 61.5" id="Isa.61.5"/><sup>5</sup>And strangers shall stand and feed your flocks, and foreigners shall be your plowmen and your vine-dressers. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.61.6" data-parsed="Isa_61_6_0_0" data-passage="Isa 61.6" id="Isa.61.6"/><sup>6</sup>But ye shall be named the priests of Jehovah; men shall call you the ministers of our God: ye shall eat the wealth of the nations, and in their glory shall ye boast yourselves. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.61.7" data-parsed="Isa_61_7_0_0" data-passage="Isa 61.7" id="Isa.61.7"/><sup>7</sup>Instead of your shame <i>ye shall have</i> double; and instead of dishonor they shall rejoice in their portion: therefore in their land they shall possess double;
everlasting joy shall be unto them. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.61.8" data-parsed="Isa_61_8_0_0" data-passage="Isa 61.8" id="Isa.61.8"/><sup>8</sup>For I, Jehovah, love justice, I hate robbery with iniquity; and I will give them their recompense in truth, and I will make an everlasting covenant with them. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.61.9" data-parsed="Isa_61_9_0_0" data-passage="Isa 61.9" id="Isa.61.9"/><sup>9</sup>And their seed shall be known among the nations, and their offspring among the peoples; all that see them shall acknowledge them, that they are the seed which Jehovah hath blessed. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.61.10" data-parsed="Isa_61_10_0_0" data-passage="Isa 61.10" id="Isa.61.10"/><sup>10</sup>I will greatly rejoice in Jehovah, my soul shall be joyful in my God; for he hath clothed me with the garments of salvation, he hath covered me with the robe of righteousness, as a bridegroom decketh himself with a garland, and as a bride adorneth herself with her jewels. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.61.11" data-parsed="Isa_61_11_0_0" data-passage="Isa 61.11" id="Isa.61.11"/><sup>11</sup>For as the earth bringeth forth its bud, and as the garden causeth the things that are sown in it to spring forth; so the Lord Jehovah will cause righteousness and praise to spring forth before all the nations.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>