<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Isaiah 65</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Isaiah 65</span></div><div data-next="Isa.66" data-prev="Isa.64" data-progress="61.33%" data-shorttitle="" id="Isa.65" title="Isaiah 65">
<h2 id="Isa.65-p0.1">65</h2>
<p id="Isa.65-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.65.1" data-parsed="Isa_65_1_0_0" data-passage="Isa 65.1" id="Isa.65.1"/><sup>1</sup>I am inquired of by them that asked not <i>for me</i>; I am found of them that sought me not: I said, Behold me, behold me, unto a nation that was not called by my name. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.65.2" data-parsed="Isa_65_2_0_0" data-passage="Isa 65.2" id="Isa.65.2"/><sup>2</sup>I have spread out my hands all the day unto a rebellious people, that walk in a way that is not good, after their own thoughts; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.65.3" data-parsed="Isa_65_3_0_0" data-passage="Isa 65.3" id="Isa.65.3"/><sup>3</sup>a people that provoke me to my face continually, sacrificing in gardens, and burning incense upon bricks; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.65.4" data-parsed="Isa_65_4_0_0" data-passage="Isa 65.4" id="Isa.65.4"/><sup>4</sup>that sit among the graves,
and lodge in the secret places; that eat swine's flesh, and broth of abominable things is in their vessels; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.65.5" data-parsed="Isa_65_5_0_0" data-passage="Isa 65.5" id="Isa.65.5"/><sup>5</sup>that say, Stand by thyself, come not near to me, for I am holier than thou. These are a smoke in my nose, a fire that burneth all the day. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.65.6" data-parsed="Isa_65_6_0_0" data-passage="Isa 65.6" id="Isa.65.6"/><sup>6</sup>Behold, it is written before me: I will not keep silence, but will recompense, yea, I will recompense into their bosom, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.65.7" data-parsed="Isa_65_7_0_0" data-passage="Isa 65.7" id="Isa.65.7"/><sup>7</sup>your own iniquities, and the iniquities of your fathers together,
saith Jehovah, that have burned incense upon the mountains, and blasphemed me upon the hills; therefore will I first measure their work into their bosom.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.65.8" data-parsed="Isa_65_8_0_0" data-passage="Isa 65.8" id="Isa.65.8"/><sup>8</sup>Thus saith Jehovah, As the new wine is found in the cluster, and one saith, Destroy it not, for a blessing is in it: so will I do for my servants'
sake, that I may not destroy them all. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.65.9" data-parsed="Isa_65_9_0_0" data-passage="Isa 65.9" id="Isa.65.9"/><sup>9</sup>And I will bring forth a seed out of Jacob, and out of Judah an inheritor of my mountains; and my chosen shall inherit it, and my servants shall dwell there. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.65.10" data-parsed="Isa_65_10_0_0" data-passage="Isa 65.10" id="Isa.65.10"/><sup>10</sup>And Sharon shall be a fold of flocks, and the valley of Achor a place for herds to lie down in, for my people that have sought me. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.65.11" data-parsed="Isa_65_11_0_0" data-passage="Isa 65.11" id="Isa.65.11"/><sup>11</sup>But ye that forsake Jehovah, that forget my holy mountain, that prepare a table for Fortune, and that fill up mingled wine unto Destiny; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.65.12" data-parsed="Isa_65_12_0_0" data-passage="Isa 65.12" id="Isa.65.12"/><sup>12</sup>I will destine you to the sword, and ye shall all bow down to the slaughter; because when I called, ye did not answer; when I spake, ye did not hear; but ye did that which was evil in mine eyes, and chose that wherein I delighted not. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.65.13" data-parsed="Isa_65_13_0_0" data-passage="Isa 65.13" id="Isa.65.13"/><sup>13</sup>Therefore thus saith the Lord Jehovah, Behold, my servants shall eat, but ye shall be hungry; behold, my servants shall drink, but ye shall be thirsty; behold, my servants shall rejoice, but ye shall be put to shame; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.65.14" data-parsed="Isa_65_14_0_0" data-passage="Isa 65.14" id="Isa.65.14"/><sup>14</sup>behold, my servants shall sing for joy of heart, but ye shall cry for sorrow of heart, and shall wail for vexation of spirit. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.65.15" data-parsed="Isa_65_15_0_0" data-passage="Isa 65.15" id="Isa.65.15"/><sup>15</sup>And ye shall leave your name for a curse unto my chosen; and the Lord Jehovah will slay thee; and he will call his servants by another name: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.65.16" data-parsed="Isa_65_16_0_0" data-passage="Isa 65.16" id="Isa.65.16"/><sup>16</sup>so that he who blesseth himself in the earth shall bless himself in the God of truth; and he that sweareth in the earth shall swear by the God of truth; because the former troubles are forgotten, and because they are hid from mine eyes. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.65.17" data-parsed="Isa_65_17_0_0" data-passage="Isa 65.17" id="Isa.65.17"/><sup>17</sup>For, behold, I create new heavens and a new earth; and the former things shall not be remembered, nor come into mind.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.65.18" data-parsed="Isa_65_18_0_0" data-passage="Isa 65.18" id="Isa.65.18"/><sup>18</sup>But be ye glad and rejoice for ever in that which I create; for,
behold, I create Jerusalem a rejoicing, and her people a joy. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.65.19" data-parsed="Isa_65_19_0_0" data-passage="Isa 65.19" id="Isa.65.19"/><sup>19</sup>And I will rejoice in Jerusalem, and joy in my people; and there shall be heard in her no more the voice of weeping and the voice of crying. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.65.20" data-parsed="Isa_65_20_0_0" data-passage="Isa 65.20" id="Isa.65.20"/><sup>20</sup>There shall be no more thence an infant of days, nor an old man that hath not filled his days; for the child shall die a hundred years old, and the sinner being a hundred years old shall be accursed. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.65.21" data-parsed="Isa_65_21_0_0" data-passage="Isa 65.21" id="Isa.65.21"/><sup>21</sup>And they shall build houses, and inhabit them; and they shall plant vineyards, and eat the fruit of them.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.65.22" data-parsed="Isa_65_22_0_0" data-passage="Isa 65.22" id="Isa.65.22"/><sup>22</sup>They shall not build, and another inhabit; they shall not plant, and another eat: for as the days of a tree shall be the days of my people, and my chosen shall long enjoy the work of their hands. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.65.23" data-parsed="Isa_65_23_0_0" data-passage="Isa 65.23" id="Isa.65.23"/><sup>23</sup>They shall not labor in vain, nor bring forth for calamity; for they are the seed of the blessed of Jehovah, and their offspring with them. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.65.24" data-parsed="Isa_65_24_0_0" data-passage="Isa 65.24" id="Isa.65.24"/><sup>24</sup>And it shall come to pass that, before they call, I will answer; and while they are yet speaking, I will hear. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.65.25" data-parsed="Isa_65_25_0_0" data-passage="Isa 65.25" id="Isa.65.25"/><sup>25</sup>The wolf and the lamb shall feed together, and the lion shall eat straw like the ox; and dust shall be the serpent's food. They shall not hurt nor destroy in all my holy mountain, saith Jehovah.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>