<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Isaiah 7</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Isaiah 7</span></div><div data-next="Isa.8" data-prev="Isa.6" data-progress="57.34%" data-shorttitle="" id="Isa.7" title="Isaiah 7">
<h2 id="Isa.7-p0.1">7</h2>
<p id="Isa.7-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.7.1" data-parsed="Isa_7_1_0_0" data-passage="Isa 7.1" id="Isa.7.1"/><sup>1</sup>And it came to pass in the days of Ahaz the son of Jotham, the son of Uzziah, king of Judah, that Rezin the king of Syria, and Pekah the son of Remaliah, king of Israel, went up to Jerusalem to war against it, but could not prevail against it. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.7.2" data-parsed="Isa_7_2_0_0" data-passage="Isa 7.2" id="Isa.7.2"/><sup>2</sup>And it was told the house of David, saying,
Syria is confederate with Ephraim. And his heart trembled, and the heart of his people, as the trees of the forest tremble with the wind. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.7.3" data-parsed="Isa_7_3_0_0" data-passage="Isa 7.3" id="Isa.7.3"/><sup>3</sup>Then said Jehovah unto Isaiah, Go forth now to meet Ahaz, thou, and Shear-jashub thy son, at the end of the conduit of the upper pool, in the highway of the fuller's field; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.7.4" data-parsed="Isa_7_4_0_0" data-passage="Isa 7.4" id="Isa.7.4"/><sup>4</sup>and say unto him, Take heed, and be quiet; fear not,
neither let thy heart be faint, because of these two tails of smoking firebrands, for the fierce anger of Rezin and Syria, and of the son of Remaliah. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.7.5" data-parsed="Isa_7_5_0_0" data-passage="Isa 7.5" id="Isa.7.5"/><sup>5</sup>Because Syria, Ephraim, and the son of Remaliah, have purposed evil against thee, saying, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.7.6" data-parsed="Isa_7_6_0_0" data-passage="Isa 7.6" id="Isa.7.6"/><sup>6</sup>Let us go up against Judah, and vex it, and let us make a breach therein for us, and set up a king in the midst of it,
even the son of Tabeel; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.7.7" data-parsed="Isa_7_7_0_0" data-passage="Isa 7.7" id="Isa.7.7"/><sup>7</sup>thus saith the Lord Jehovah, It shall not stand,
neither shall it come to pass. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.7.8" data-parsed="Isa_7_8_0_0" data-passage="Isa 7.8" id="Isa.7.8"/><sup>8</sup>For the head of Syria is Damascus, and the head of Damascus is Rezin; and within threescore and five years shall Ephraim be broken in pieces, so that is shall not be a people: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.7.9" data-parsed="Isa_7_9_0_0" data-passage="Isa 7.9" id="Isa.7.9"/><sup>9</sup>and the head of Ephraim is Samaria, and the head of Samaria is Remaliah's son. If ye will not believe, surely ye shall not be established. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.7.10" data-parsed="Isa_7_10_0_0" data-passage="Isa 7.10" id="Isa.7.10"/><sup>10</sup>And Jehovah spake again unto Ahaz, saying, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.7.11" data-parsed="Isa_7_11_0_0" data-passage="Isa 7.11" id="Isa.7.11"/><sup>11</sup>Ask thee a sign of Jehovah thy God; ask it either in the depth, or in the height above. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.7.12" data-parsed="Isa_7_12_0_0" data-passage="Isa 7.12" id="Isa.7.12"/><sup>12</sup>But Ahaz said, I will not ask, neither will I tempt Jehovah. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.7.13" data-parsed="Isa_7_13_0_0" data-passage="Isa 7.13" id="Isa.7.13"/><sup>13</sup>And he said, Hear ye now, O house of David: Is it a small thing for you to weary men, that ye will weary my God also? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.7.14" data-parsed="Isa_7_14_0_0" data-passage="Isa 7.14" id="Isa.7.14"/><sup>14</sup>Therefore the Lord himself will give you a sign: behold, a virgin shall conceive, and bear a son, and shall call his name Immanuel.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.7.15" data-parsed="Isa_7_15_0_0" data-passage="Isa 7.15" id="Isa.7.15"/><sup>15</sup>Butter and honey shall he eat, when he knoweth to refuse the evil, and choose the good. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.7.16" data-parsed="Isa_7_16_0_0" data-passage="Isa 7.16" id="Isa.7.16"/><sup>16</sup>For before the child shall know to refuse the evil,
and choose the good, the land whose two kings thou abhorrest shall be forsaken. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.7.17" data-parsed="Isa_7_17_0_0" data-passage="Isa 7.17" id="Isa.7.17"/><sup>17</sup>Jehovah will bring upon thee, and upon thy people, and upon thy father's house, days that have not come, from the day that Ephraim departed from Judah-<i>even</i> the king of Assyria. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.7.18" data-parsed="Isa_7_18_0_0" data-passage="Isa 7.18" id="Isa.7.18"/><sup>18</sup>And it shall come to pass in that day, that Jehovah will hiss for the fly that is in the uttermost part of the rivers of Egypt, and for the bee that is in the land of Assyria. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.7.19" data-parsed="Isa_7_19_0_0" data-passage="Isa 7.19" id="Isa.7.19"/><sup>19</sup>And they shall come, and shall rest all of them in the desolate valleys, and in the clefts of the rocks, and upon all thorn-hedges,
and upon all pastures. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.7.20" data-parsed="Isa_7_20_0_0" data-passage="Isa 7.20" id="Isa.7.20"/><sup>20</sup>In that day will the Lord shave with a razor that is hired in the parts beyond the River, <i>even</i> with the king of Assyria, the head and the hair of the feet; and it shall also consume the beard. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.7.21" data-parsed="Isa_7_21_0_0" data-passage="Isa 7.21" id="Isa.7.21"/><sup>21</sup>And it shall come to pass in that day, that a man shall keep alive a young cow, and two sheep; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.7.22" data-parsed="Isa_7_22_0_0" data-passage="Isa 7.22" id="Isa.7.22"/><sup>22</sup>and it shall come to pass, that because of the abundance of milk which they shall give he shall eat butter:
for butter and honey shall every one eat that is left in the midst of the land. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.7.23" data-parsed="Isa_7_23_0_0" data-passage="Isa 7.23" id="Isa.7.23"/><sup>23</sup>And it shall come to pass in that day, that every place, where there were a thousand vines at a thousand silverlings, shall be for briers and thorns. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.7.24" data-parsed="Isa_7_24_0_0" data-passage="Isa 7.24" id="Isa.7.24"/><sup>24</sup>With arrows and with bow shall one come thither, because all the land shall be briers and thorns. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.7.25" data-parsed="Isa_7_25_0_0" data-passage="Isa 7.25" id="Isa.7.25"/><sup>25</sup>And all the hills that were digged with the mattock, thou shalt not come thither for fear of briers and thorns; but it shall be for the sending forth of oxen, and for the treading of sheep.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>