<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Isaiah 9</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Isaiah 9</span></div><div data-next="Isa.10" data-prev="Isa.8" data-progress="57.49%" data-shorttitle="" id="Isa.9" title="Isaiah 9">
<h2 id="Isa.9-p0.1">9</h2>
<p id="Isa.9-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.9.1" data-parsed="Isa_9_1_0_0" data-passage="Isa 9.1" id="Isa.9.1"/><sup>1</sup>But there shall be no gloom to her that was in anguish. In the former time he brought into contempt the land of Zebulun and the land of Naphtali; but in the latter time hath he made it glorious, by the way of the sea, beyond the Jordan, Galilee of the nations. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.9.2" data-parsed="Isa_9_2_0_0" data-passage="Isa 9.2" id="Isa.9.2"/><sup>2</sup>The people that walked in darkness have seen a great light: they that dwelt in the land of the shadow of death, upon them hath the light shined. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.9.3" data-parsed="Isa_9_3_0_0" data-passage="Isa 9.3" id="Isa.9.3"/><sup>3</sup>Thou hast multiplied the nation, thou hast increased their joy: they joy before thee according to the joy in harvest, as men rejoice when they divide the spoil. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.9.4" data-parsed="Isa_9_4_0_0" data-passage="Isa 9.4" id="Isa.9.4"/><sup>4</sup>For the yoke of his burden, and the staff of his shoulder, the rod of his oppressor,
thou hast broken as in the day of Midian. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.9.5" data-parsed="Isa_9_5_0_0" data-passage="Isa 9.5" id="Isa.9.5"/><sup>5</sup>For all the armor of the armed man in the tumult, and the garments rolled in blood, shall be for burning,
for fuel of fire. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.9.6" data-parsed="Isa_9_6_0_0" data-passage="Isa 9.6" id="Isa.9.6"/><sup>6</sup>For unto us a child is born, unto us a son is given;
and the government shall be upon his shoulder: and his name shall be called Wonderful, Counsellor, Mighty God, Everlasting Father, Prince of Peace.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.9.7" data-parsed="Isa_9_7_0_0" data-passage="Isa 9.7" id="Isa.9.7"/><sup>7</sup>Of the increase of his government and of peace there shall be no end,
upon the throne of David, and upon his kingdom, to establish it, and to uphold it with justice and with righteousness from henceforth even for ever.
The zeal of Jehovah of hosts will perform this. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.9.8" data-parsed="Isa_9_8_0_0" data-passage="Isa 9.8" id="Isa.9.8"/><sup>8</sup>The Lord sent a word into Jacob, and it hath lighted upon Israel. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.9.9" data-parsed="Isa_9_9_0_0" data-passage="Isa 9.9" id="Isa.9.9"/><sup>9</sup>And all the people shall know, <i>even</i> Ephraim and the inhabitant of Samaria, that say in pride and in stoutness of heart, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.9.10" data-parsed="Isa_9_10_0_0" data-passage="Isa 9.10" id="Isa.9.10"/><sup>10</sup>The bricks are fallen, but we will build with hewn stone; the sycomores are cut down, but we will put cedars in their place. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.9.11" data-parsed="Isa_9_11_0_0" data-passage="Isa 9.11" id="Isa.9.11"/><sup>11</sup>Therefore Jehovah will set up on high against him the adversaries of Rezin, and will stir up his enemies, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.9.12" data-parsed="Isa_9_12_0_0" data-passage="Isa 9.12" id="Isa.9.12"/><sup>12</sup>the Syrians before,
and the Philistines behind; and they shall devour Israel with open mouth. For all this his anger is not turned away, but his hand is stretched out still.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.9.13" data-parsed="Isa_9_13_0_0" data-passage="Isa 9.13" id="Isa.9.13"/><sup>13</sup>Yet the people have not turned unto him that smote them, neither have they sought Jehovah of hosts. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.9.14" data-parsed="Isa_9_14_0_0" data-passage="Isa 9.14" id="Isa.9.14"/><sup>14</sup>Therefore Jehovah will cut off from Israel head and tail, palm-branch and rush, in one day. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.9.15" data-parsed="Isa_9_15_0_0" data-passage="Isa 9.15" id="Isa.9.15"/><sup>15</sup>The elder and the honorable man, he is the head; and the prophet that teacheth lies, he is the tail. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.9.16" data-parsed="Isa_9_16_0_0" data-passage="Isa 9.16" id="Isa.9.16"/><sup>16</sup>For they that lead this people cause them to err; and they that are led of them are destroyed. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.9.17" data-parsed="Isa_9_17_0_0" data-passage="Isa 9.17" id="Isa.9.17"/><sup>17</sup>Therefore the Lord will not rejoice over their young men, neither will he have compassion on their fatherless and widows; for every one is profane and an evil-doer, and every mouth speaketh folly. For all this his anger is not turned away, but his hand is stretched out still. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.9.18" data-parsed="Isa_9_18_0_0" data-passage="Isa 9.18" id="Isa.9.18"/><sup>18</sup>For wickedness burneth as the fire; it devoureth the briers and thorns; yea, it kindleth in the thickets of the forest, and they roll upward in a column of smoke. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.9.19" data-parsed="Isa_9_19_0_0" data-passage="Isa 9.19" id="Isa.9.19"/><sup>19</sup>Through the wrath of Jehovah of hosts is the land burnt up; and the people are as the fuel of fire: no man spareth his brother. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.9.20" data-parsed="Isa_9_20_0_0" data-passage="Isa 9.20" id="Isa.9.20"/><sup>20</sup>And one shall snatch on the right hand, and be hungry; and he shall eat on the left hand, and they shall not be satisfied: they shall eat every man the flesh of his own arm: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Isa.9.21" data-parsed="Isa_9_21_0_0" data-passage="Isa 9.21" id="Isa.9.21"/><sup>21</sup>Manasseh, Ephraim; and Ephraim,
Manasseh; and they together shall be against Judah. For all this his anger is not turned away, but his hand is stretched out still.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>