<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>1 Samuel 31</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">1 Samuel 31</span></div><div data-next="iiSam" data-prev="iSam.30" data-progress="28.44%" data-shorttitle="" id="iSam.31" title="1 Samuel 31">
<h2 id="iSam.31-p0.1">31</h2>
<p id="iSam.31-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Sam.31.1" data-parsed="1Sam_31_1_0_0" data-passage="iSam 31.1" id="iSam.31.1"/><sup>1</sup>Now the Philistines fought against Israel: and the men of Israel fled from before the Philistines, and fell down slain in mount Gilboa.

<span data-osisref="Bible:1Sam.31.2" data-parsed="1Sam_31_2_0_0" data-passage="iSam 31.2" id="iSam.31.2"/><sup>2</sup>And the Philistines followed hard upon Saul and upon his sons; and the Philistines slew Jonathan, and Abinadab, and Malchishua, the sons of Saul.

<span data-osisref="Bible:1Sam.31.3" data-parsed="1Sam_31_3_0_0" data-passage="iSam 31.3" id="iSam.31.3"/><sup>3</sup>And the battle went sore against Saul, and the archers overtook him; and he was greatly distressed by reason of the archers. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Sam.31.4" data-parsed="1Sam_31_4_0_0" data-passage="iSam 31.4" id="iSam.31.4"/><sup>4</sup>Then said Saul to his armorbearer, Draw thy sword, and thrust me through therewith, lest these uncircumcised come and thrust me through, and abuse me. But his armorbearer would not; for he was sore afraid. Therefore Saul took his sword, and fell upon it. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Sam.31.5" data-parsed="1Sam_31_5_0_0" data-passage="iSam 31.5" id="iSam.31.5"/><sup>5</sup>And when his armorbearer saw that Saul was dead, he likewise fell upon his sword, and died with him. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Sam.31.6" data-parsed="1Sam_31_6_0_0" data-passage="iSam 31.6" id="iSam.31.6"/><sup>6</sup>So Saul died, and his three sons, and his armorbearer, and all his men, that same day together.</p>
<p id="iSam.31-p2">
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Sam.31.7" data-parsed="1Sam_31_7_0_0" data-passage="iSam 31.7" id="iSam.31.7"/><sup>7</sup>And when the men of Israel that were on the other side of the valley,
and they that were beyond the Jordan, saw that the men of Israel fled, and that Saul and his sons were dead, they forsook the cities, and fled; and the Philistines came and dwelt in them. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Sam.31.8" data-parsed="1Sam_31_8_0_0" data-passage="iSam 31.8" id="iSam.31.8"/><sup>8</sup>And it came to pass on the morrow,
when the Philistines came to strip the slain, that they found Saul and his three sons fallen in mount Gilboa. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Sam.31.9" data-parsed="1Sam_31_9_0_0" data-passage="iSam 31.9" id="iSam.31.9"/><sup>9</sup>And they cut off his head, and stripped off his armor, and sent into the land of the Philistines round about, to carry the tidings unto the house of their idols, and to the people.

<span data-osisref="Bible:1Sam.31.10" data-parsed="1Sam_31_10_0_0" data-passage="iSam 31.10" id="iSam.31.10"/><sup>10</sup>And they put his armor in the house of the Ashtaroth; and they fastened his body to the wall of Beth-shan. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Sam.31.11" data-parsed="1Sam_31_11_0_0" data-passage="iSam 31.11" id="iSam.31.11"/><sup>11</sup>And when the inhabitants of Jabesh-gilead heard concerning him that which the Philistines had done to Saul, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Sam.31.12" data-parsed="1Sam_31_12_0_0" data-passage="iSam 31.12" id="iSam.31.12"/><sup>12</sup>all the valiant men arose, and went all night, and took the body of Saul and the bodies of his sons from the wall of Beth-shan; and they came to Jabesh, and burnt them there. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Sam.31.13" data-parsed="1Sam_31_13_0_0" data-passage="iSam 31.13" id="iSam.31.13"/><sup>13</sup>And they took their bones, and buried them under the tamarisk-tree in Jabesh, and fasted seven days.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>