<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>1 Samuel 23</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">1 Samuel 23</span></div><div data-next="iSam.24" data-prev="iSam.22" data-progress="27.66%" data-shorttitle="" id="iSam.23" title="1 Samuel 23">
<h2 id="iSam.23-p0.1">23</h2>
<p id="iSam.23-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Sam.23.1" data-parsed="1Sam_23_1_0_0" data-passage="iSam 23.1" id="iSam.23.1"/><sup>1</sup>And they told David, saying, Behold, the Philistines are fighting against Keilah, and are robbing the threshing-floors. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Sam.23.2" data-parsed="1Sam_23_2_0_0" data-passage="iSam 23.2" id="iSam.23.2"/><sup>2</sup>Therefore David inquired of Jehovah, saying, Shall I go and smite these Philistines? And Jehovah said unto David, Go, and smite the Philistines, and save Keilah.

<span data-osisref="Bible:1Sam.23.3" data-parsed="1Sam_23_3_0_0" data-passage="iSam 23.3" id="iSam.23.3"/><sup>3</sup>And David's men said unto him, Behold, we are afraid here in Judah: how much more then if we go to Keilah against the armies of the Philistines?

<span data-osisref="Bible:1Sam.23.4" data-parsed="1Sam_23_4_0_0" data-passage="iSam 23.4" id="iSam.23.4"/><sup>4</sup>Then David inquired of Jehovah yet again. And Jehovah answered him, and said, Arise, go down to Keilah; for I will deliver the Philistines into thy hand. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Sam.23.5" data-parsed="1Sam_23_5_0_0" data-passage="iSam 23.5" id="iSam.23.5"/><sup>5</sup>And David and his men went to Keilah, and fought with the Philistines, and brought away their cattle, and slew them with a great slaughter. So David save the inhabitants of Keilah. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Sam.23.6" data-parsed="1Sam_23_6_0_0" data-passage="iSam 23.6" id="iSam.23.6"/><sup>6</sup>And it came to pass,
when Abiathar the son of Ahimelech fled to David to Keilah, that he came down with an ephod in his hand.</p>
<p id="iSam.23-p2">
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Sam.23.7" data-parsed="1Sam_23_7_0_0" data-passage="iSam 23.7" id="iSam.23.7"/><sup>7</sup>And it was told Saul that David was come to Keilah. And Saul said, God hath delivered him into my hand; for he is shut in, by entering into a town that hath gates and bars. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Sam.23.8" data-parsed="1Sam_23_8_0_0" data-passage="iSam 23.8" id="iSam.23.8"/><sup>8</sup>And Saul summoned all the people to war, to go down to Keilah, to besiege David and his men. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Sam.23.9" data-parsed="1Sam_23_9_0_0" data-passage="iSam 23.9" id="iSam.23.9"/><sup>9</sup>And David knew that Saul was devising mischief against him; and he said to Abiathar the priest, Bring hither the ephod. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Sam.23.10" data-parsed="1Sam_23_10_0_0" data-passage="iSam 23.10" id="iSam.23.10"/><sup>10</sup>Then said David, O Jehovah, the God of Israel, thy servant hath surely heard that Saul seeketh to come to Keilah, to destroy the city for my sake. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Sam.23.11" data-parsed="1Sam_23_11_0_0" data-passage="iSam 23.11" id="iSam.23.11"/><sup>11</sup>Will the men of Keilah deliver me up into his hand?
will Saul come down, as thy servant hath heard? O Jehovah, the God of Israel,
I beseech thee, tell thy servant. And Jehovah said, He will come down.

<span data-osisref="Bible:1Sam.23.12" data-parsed="1Sam_23_12_0_0" data-passage="iSam 23.12" id="iSam.23.12"/><sup>12</sup>Then said David, Will the men of Keilah deliver up to me and my men into the hand of Saul? And Jehovah said, They will deliver thee up.

<span data-osisref="Bible:1Sam.23.13" data-parsed="1Sam_23_13_0_0" data-passage="iSam 23.13" id="iSam.23.13"/><sup>13</sup>Then David and his men, who were about six hundred, arose and departed out of Keilah, and went whithersoever they could go. And it was told Saul that David was escaped from Keilah; and he forbare to go forth. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Sam.23.14" data-parsed="1Sam_23_14_0_0" data-passage="iSam 23.14" id="iSam.23.14"/><sup>14</sup>And David abode in the wilderness in the strongholds, and remained in the hill-country in the wilderness of Ziph. And Saul sought him every day, but God delivered him not into his hand.</p>
<p id="iSam.23-p3">
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Sam.23.15" data-parsed="1Sam_23_15_0_0" data-passage="iSam 23.15" id="iSam.23.15"/><sup>15</sup>And David saw that Saul was come out to seek his life: and David was in the wilderness of Ziph in the wood. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Sam.23.16" data-parsed="1Sam_23_16_0_0" data-passage="iSam 23.16" id="iSam.23.16"/><sup>16</sup>And Jonathan, Saul's son, arose,
and went to David into the wood, and strengthened his hand in God. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Sam.23.17" data-parsed="1Sam_23_17_0_0" data-passage="iSam 23.17" id="iSam.23.17"/><sup>17</sup>And he said unto him, Fear not; for the hand of Saul my father shall not find thee; and thou shalt be king over Israel, and I shall be next unto thee; and that also Saul my father knoweth. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Sam.23.18" data-parsed="1Sam_23_18_0_0" data-passage="iSam 23.18" id="iSam.23.18"/><sup>18</sup>And they two made a covenant before Jehovah: and David abode in the wood, and Jonathan went to his house.</p>
<p id="iSam.23-p4">
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Sam.23.19" data-parsed="1Sam_23_19_0_0" data-passage="iSam 23.19" id="iSam.23.19"/><sup>19</sup>Then came up the Ziphites to Saul to Gibeah, saying, Doth not David hide himself with us in the strongholds in the wood, in the hill of Hachilah,
which is on the south of the desert? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Sam.23.20" data-parsed="1Sam_23_20_0_0" data-passage="iSam 23.20" id="iSam.23.20"/><sup>20</sup>Now therefore, O king, come down,
according to all the desire of thy soul to come down; and our part shall be to deliver him up into the king's hand. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Sam.23.21" data-parsed="1Sam_23_21_0_0" data-passage="iSam 23.21" id="iSam.23.21"/><sup>21</sup>And Saul said, Blessed be ye of Jehovah; for ye have had compassion on me. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Sam.23.22" data-parsed="1Sam_23_22_0_0" data-passage="iSam 23.22" id="iSam.23.22"/><sup>22</sup>Go, I pray you, make yet more sure, and know and see his place where his haunt is, <i>and</i> who hath seen him there; for it is told me that he dealeth very subtly. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Sam.23.23" data-parsed="1Sam_23_23_0_0" data-passage="iSam 23.23" id="iSam.23.23"/><sup>23</sup>See therefore, and take knowledge of all the lurking-places where he hideth himself, and come ye again to me of a certainty, and I will go with you: and it shall come to pass, if he be in the land, that I will search him out among all the thousands of Judah.</p>
<p id="iSam.23-p5">
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Sam.23.24" data-parsed="1Sam_23_24_0_0" data-passage="iSam 23.24" id="iSam.23.24"/><sup>24</sup>And they arose, and went to Ziph before Saul: but David and his men were in the wilderness of Maon, in the Arabah on the south of the desert.

<span data-osisref="Bible:1Sam.23.25" data-parsed="1Sam_23_25_0_0" data-passage="iSam 23.25" id="iSam.23.25"/><sup>25</sup>And Saul and his men went to seek him. And they told David: wherefore he came down to the rock, and abode in the wilderness of Maon. And when Saul heard <i>that</i>, he pursued after David in the wilderness of Maon.

<span data-osisref="Bible:1Sam.23.26" data-parsed="1Sam_23_26_0_0" data-passage="iSam 23.26" id="iSam.23.26"/><sup>26</sup>And Saul went on this side of the mountain, and David and his men on that side of the mountain: and David made haste to get away for fear of Saul;
for Saul and his men compassed David and his men round about to take them.

<span data-osisref="Bible:1Sam.23.27" data-parsed="1Sam_23_27_0_0" data-passage="iSam 23.27" id="iSam.23.27"/><sup>27</sup>But there came a messenger unto Saul, saying, Haste thee, and come; for the Philistines have made a raid upon the land. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Sam.23.28" data-parsed="1Sam_23_28_0_0" data-passage="iSam 23.28" id="iSam.23.28"/><sup>28</sup>So Saul returned from pursuing after David, and went against the Philistines: therefore they called that place Sela-hammahlekoth. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Sam.23.29" data-parsed="1Sam_23_29_0_0" data-passage="iSam 23.29" id="iSam.23.29"/><sup>29</sup>And David went up from thence, and dwelt in the strongholds of En-gedi.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>