<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>1 Samuel 12</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">1 Samuel 12</span></div><div data-next="iSam.13" data-prev="iSam.11" data-progress="26.36%" data-shorttitle="" id="iSam.12" title="1 Samuel 12">
<h2 id="iSam.12-p0.1">12</h2>
<p id="iSam.12-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Sam.12.1" data-parsed="1Sam_12_1_0_0" data-passage="iSam 12.1" id="iSam.12.1"/><sup>1</sup>And Samuel said unto all Israel, Behold, I have hearkened unto your voice in all that ye said unto me, and have made a king over you.

<span data-osisref="Bible:1Sam.12.2" data-parsed="1Sam_12_2_0_0" data-passage="iSam 12.2" id="iSam.12.2"/><sup>2</sup>And now, behold, the king walketh before you; and I am old and grayheaded; and, behold, my sons are with you: and I have walked before you from my youth unto this day. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Sam.12.3" data-parsed="1Sam_12_3_0_0" data-passage="iSam 12.3" id="iSam.12.3"/><sup>3</sup>Here I am: witness against me before Jehovah, and before his anointed: whose ox have I taken? or whose ass have I taken? or whom have I defrauded? whom have I oppressed? or of whose hand have I taken a ransom to blind mine eyes therewith? and I will restore it you.

<span data-osisref="Bible:1Sam.12.4" data-parsed="1Sam_12_4_0_0" data-passage="iSam 12.4" id="iSam.12.4"/><sup>4</sup>And they said, Thou hast not defrauded us, nor oppressed us, neither hast thou taken aught of any man's hand. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Sam.12.5" data-parsed="1Sam_12_5_0_0" data-passage="iSam 12.5" id="iSam.12.5"/><sup>5</sup>And he said unto them, Jehovah is witness against you, and his anointed is witness this day, that ye have not found aught in my hand. And they said, He is witness.</p>
<p id="iSam.12-p2">
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Sam.12.6" data-parsed="1Sam_12_6_0_0" data-passage="iSam 12.6" id="iSam.12.6"/><sup>6</sup>And Samuel said unto the people, It is Jehovah that appointed Moses and Aaron, and that brought your fathers up out of the land of Egypt. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Sam.12.7" data-parsed="1Sam_12_7_0_0" data-passage="iSam 12.7" id="iSam.12.7"/><sup>7</sup>Now therefore stand still, that I may plead with you before Jehovah concerning all the righteous acts of Jehovah, which he did to you and to your fathers.

<span data-osisref="Bible:1Sam.12.8" data-parsed="1Sam_12_8_0_0" data-passage="iSam 12.8" id="iSam.12.8"/><sup>8</sup>When Jacob was come into Egypt, and your fathers cried unto Jehovah,
then Jehovah sent Moses and Aaron, who brought forth your fathers out of Egypt, and made them to dwell in this place. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Sam.12.9" data-parsed="1Sam_12_9_0_0" data-passage="iSam 12.9" id="iSam.12.9"/><sup>9</sup>But they forgat Jehovah their God; and he sold them into the hand of Sisera, captain of the host of Hazor, and into the hand of the Philistines, and into the hand of the king of Moab; and they fought against them. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Sam.12.10" data-parsed="1Sam_12_10_0_0" data-passage="iSam 12.10" id="iSam.12.10"/><sup>10</sup>And they cried unto Jehovah, and said, We have sinned, because we have forsaken Jehovah, and have served the Baalim and the Ashtaroth: but now deliver us out of the hand of our enemies,
and we will serve thee. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Sam.12.11" data-parsed="1Sam_12_11_0_0" data-passage="iSam 12.11" id="iSam.12.11"/><sup>11</sup>And Jehovah sent Jerubbaal, and Bedan, and Jephthah, and Samuel, and delivered you out of the hand of your enemies on every side; and ye dwelt in safety. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Sam.12.12" data-parsed="1Sam_12_12_0_0" data-passage="iSam 12.12" id="iSam.12.12"/><sup>12</sup>And when ye saw that Nahash the king of the children of Ammon came against you, ye said unto me, Nay, but a king shall reign over us; when Jehovah your God was your king. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Sam.12.13" data-parsed="1Sam_12_13_0_0" data-passage="iSam 12.13" id="iSam.12.13"/><sup>13</sup>Now therefore behold the king whom ye have chosen, and whom ye have asked for:
and, behold, Jehovah hath set a king over you. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Sam.12.14" data-parsed="1Sam_12_14_0_0" data-passage="iSam 12.14" id="iSam.12.14"/><sup>14</sup>If ye will fear Jehovah,
and serve him, and hearken unto his voice, and not rebel against the commandment of Jehovah, and both ye and also the king that reigneth over you be followers of Jehovah your God, <i>well</i>: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Sam.12.15" data-parsed="1Sam_12_15_0_0" data-passage="iSam 12.15" id="iSam.12.15"/><sup>15</sup>but if ye will not hearken unto the voice of Jehovah, but rebel against the commandment of Jehovah, then will the hand of Jehovah be against you, as it was against your fathers. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Sam.12.16" data-parsed="1Sam_12_16_0_0" data-passage="iSam 12.16" id="iSam.12.16"/><sup>16</sup>Now therefore stand still and see this great thing, which Jehovah will do before your eyes. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Sam.12.17" data-parsed="1Sam_12_17_0_0" data-passage="iSam 12.17" id="iSam.12.17"/><sup>17</sup>Is it not wheat harvest to-day? I will call unto Jehovah, that he may send thunder and rain; and ye shall know and see that your wickedness is great, which ye have done in the sight of Jehovah, in asking you a king. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Sam.12.18" data-parsed="1Sam_12_18_0_0" data-passage="iSam 12.18" id="iSam.12.18"/><sup>18</sup>So Samuel called unto Jehovah; and Jehovah sent thunder and rain that day: and all the people greatly feared Jehovah and Samuel.</p>
<p id="iSam.12-p3">
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Sam.12.19" data-parsed="1Sam_12_19_0_0" data-passage="iSam 12.19" id="iSam.12.19"/><sup>19</sup>And all the people said unto Samuel, Pray for thy servants unto Jehovah thy God, that we die not; for we have added unto all our sins <i>this</i>
evil, to ask us a king. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Sam.12.20" data-parsed="1Sam_12_20_0_0" data-passage="iSam 12.20" id="iSam.12.20"/><sup>20</sup>And Samuel said unto the people, Fear not; ye have indeed done all this evil; yet turn not aside from following Jehovah,
but serve Jehovah with all your heart: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Sam.12.21" data-parsed="1Sam_12_21_0_0" data-passage="iSam 12.21" id="iSam.12.21"/><sup>21</sup>and turn ye not aside; for <i>then would ye go</i> after vain things which cannot profit nor deliver,
for they are vain. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Sam.12.22" data-parsed="1Sam_12_22_0_0" data-passage="iSam 12.22" id="iSam.12.22"/><sup>22</sup>For Jehovah will not forsake his people for his great name's sake, because it hath pleased Jehovah to make you a people unto himself. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Sam.12.23" data-parsed="1Sam_12_23_0_0" data-passage="iSam 12.23" id="iSam.12.23"/><sup>23</sup>Moreover as for me, far be it from me that I should sin against Jehovah in ceasing to pray for you: but I will instruct you in the good and the right way. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Sam.12.24" data-parsed="1Sam_12_24_0_0" data-passage="iSam 12.24" id="iSam.12.24"/><sup>24</sup>Only fear Jehovah, and serve him in truth with all your heart; for consider how great things he hath done for you. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Sam.12.25" data-parsed="1Sam_12_25_0_0" data-passage="iSam 12.25" id="iSam.12.25"/><sup>25</sup>But if ye shall still do wickedly, ye shall be consumed, both ye and your king.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>