<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>1 Samuel 8</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">1 Samuel 8</span></div><div data-next="iSam.9" data-prev="iSam.7" data-progress="26.01%" data-shorttitle="" id="iSam.8" title="1 Samuel 8">
<h2 id="iSam.8-p0.1">8</h2>
<p id="iSam.8-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Sam.8.1" data-parsed="1Sam_8_1_0_0" data-passage="iSam 8.1" id="iSam.8.1"/><sup>1</sup>And it came to pass, when Samuel was old, that he made his sons judges over Israel. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Sam.8.2" data-parsed="1Sam_8_2_0_0" data-passage="iSam 8.2" id="iSam.8.2"/><sup>2</sup>Now the name of his first-born was Joel; and the name of his second, Abijah: they were judges in Beer-sheba. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Sam.8.3" data-parsed="1Sam_8_3_0_0" data-passage="iSam 8.3" id="iSam.8.3"/><sup>3</sup>And his sons walked not in his ways, but turned aside after lucre, and took bribes, and perverted justice.</p>
<p id="iSam.8-p2">
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Sam.8.4" data-parsed="1Sam_8_4_0_0" data-passage="iSam 8.4" id="iSam.8.4"/><sup>4</sup>Then all the elders of Israel gathered themselves together, and came to Samuel unto Ramah; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Sam.8.5" data-parsed="1Sam_8_5_0_0" data-passage="iSam 8.5" id="iSam.8.5"/><sup>5</sup>and they said unto him, Behold, thou art old, and thy sons walk not in thy ways: now make us a king to judge us like all the nations. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Sam.8.6" data-parsed="1Sam_8_6_0_0" data-passage="iSam 8.6" id="iSam.8.6"/><sup>6</sup>But the thing displeased Samuel, when they said, Give us a king to judge us. And Samuel prayed unto Jehovah. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Sam.8.7" data-parsed="1Sam_8_7_0_0" data-passage="iSam 8.7" id="iSam.8.7"/><sup>7</sup>And Jehovah said unto Samuel, Hearken unto the voice of the people in all that they say unto thee;
for they have not rejected thee, but they have rejected me, that I should not be king over them. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Sam.8.8" data-parsed="1Sam_8_8_0_0" data-passage="iSam 8.8" id="iSam.8.8"/><sup>8</sup>According to all the works which they have done since the day that I brought them up out of Egypt even unto this day, in that they have forsaken me, and served other gods, so do they also unto thee. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Sam.8.9" data-parsed="1Sam_8_9_0_0" data-passage="iSam 8.9" id="iSam.8.9"/><sup>9</sup>Now therefore hearken unto their voice: howbeit thou shalt protest solemnly unto them, and shalt show them the manner of the king that shall reign over them.</p>
<p id="iSam.8-p3">
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Sam.8.10" data-parsed="1Sam_8_10_0_0" data-passage="iSam 8.10" id="iSam.8.10"/><sup>10</sup>And Samuel told all the words of Jehovah unto the people that asked of him a king. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Sam.8.11" data-parsed="1Sam_8_11_0_0" data-passage="iSam 8.11" id="iSam.8.11"/><sup>11</sup>And he said, This will be the manner of the king that shall reign over you: he will take your sons, and appoint them unto him, for his chariots, and to be his horsemen; and they shall run before his chariots;

<span data-osisref="Bible:1Sam.8.12" data-parsed="1Sam_8_12_0_0" data-passage="iSam 8.12" id="iSam.8.12"/><sup>12</sup>and he will appoint them unto him for captains of thousands, and captains of fifties; and <i>he will set some</i> to plow his ground, and to reap his harvest, and to make his instruments of war, and the instruments of his chariots. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Sam.8.13" data-parsed="1Sam_8_13_0_0" data-passage="iSam 8.13" id="iSam.8.13"/><sup>13</sup>And he will take your daughters to be perfumers, and to be cooks, and to be bakers. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Sam.8.14" data-parsed="1Sam_8_14_0_0" data-passage="iSam 8.14" id="iSam.8.14"/><sup>14</sup>And he will take your fields, and your vineyards, and your oliveyards, even the best of them, and give them to his servants. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Sam.8.15" data-parsed="1Sam_8_15_0_0" data-passage="iSam 8.15" id="iSam.8.15"/><sup>15</sup>And he will take the tenth of your seed, and of your vineyards, and give to his officers, and to his servants. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Sam.8.16" data-parsed="1Sam_8_16_0_0" data-passage="iSam 8.16" id="iSam.8.16"/><sup>16</sup>And he will take your men-servants, and your maid-servants, and your goodliest young men,
and your asses, and put them to his work. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Sam.8.17" data-parsed="1Sam_8_17_0_0" data-passage="iSam 8.17" id="iSam.8.17"/><sup>17</sup>He will take the tenth of your flocks: and ye shall be his servants. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Sam.8.18" data-parsed="1Sam_8_18_0_0" data-passage="iSam 8.18" id="iSam.8.18"/><sup>18</sup>And ye shall cry out in that day because of your king whom ye shall have chosen you; and Jehovah will not answer you in that day.</p>
<p id="iSam.8-p4">
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Sam.8.19" data-parsed="1Sam_8_19_0_0" data-passage="iSam 8.19" id="iSam.8.19"/><sup>19</sup>But the people refused to hearken unto the voice of Samuel; and they said, Nay: but we will have a king over us, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Sam.8.20" data-parsed="1Sam_8_20_0_0" data-passage="iSam 8.20" id="iSam.8.20"/><sup>20</sup>that we also may be like all the nations, and that our king may judge us, and go out before us, and fight our battles. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Sam.8.21" data-parsed="1Sam_8_21_0_0" data-passage="iSam 8.21" id="iSam.8.21"/><sup>21</sup>And Samuel heard all the words of the people, and he rehearsed them in the ears of Jehovah. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Sam.8.22" data-parsed="1Sam_8_22_0_0" data-passage="iSam 8.22" id="iSam.8.22"/><sup>22</sup>And Jehovah said to Samuel,
Hearken unto their voice, and make them a king. And Samuel said unto the men of Israel, Go ye every man unto his city.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>