<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>1 Samuel 18</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">1 Samuel 18</span></div><div data-next="iSam.19" data-prev="iSam.17" data-progress="27.16%" data-shorttitle="" id="iSam.18" title="1 Samuel 18">
<h2 id="iSam.18-p0.1">18</h2>
<p id="iSam.18-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Sam.18.1" data-parsed="1Sam_18_1_0_0" data-passage="iSam 18.1" id="iSam.18.1"/><sup>1</sup>And it came to pass, when he had made an end of speaking unto Saul, that the soul of Jonathan was knit with the soul of David, and Jonathan loved him as his own soul. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Sam.18.2" data-parsed="1Sam_18_2_0_0" data-passage="iSam 18.2" id="iSam.18.2"/><sup>2</sup>And Saul took him that day, and would let him go no more home to his father's house. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Sam.18.3" data-parsed="1Sam_18_3_0_0" data-passage="iSam 18.3" id="iSam.18.3"/><sup>3</sup>Then Jonathan and David made a covenant, because he loved him as his own soul. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Sam.18.4" data-parsed="1Sam_18_4_0_0" data-passage="iSam 18.4" id="iSam.18.4"/><sup>4</sup>And Jonathan stripped himself of the robe that was upon him, and gave it to David, and his apparel,
even to his sword, and to his bow, and to his girdle. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Sam.18.5" data-parsed="1Sam_18_5_0_0" data-passage="iSam 18.5" id="iSam.18.5"/><sup>5</sup>And David went out whithersoever Saul sent him, <i>and</i> behaved himself wisely: and Saul set him over the men of war, and it was good in the sight of all the people, and also in the sight of Saul's servants. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Sam.18.6" data-parsed="1Sam_18_6_0_0" data-passage="iSam 18.6" id="iSam.18.6"/><sup>6</sup>And it came to pass as they came,
when David returned from the slaughter of the Philistine, that the women came out of all the cities of Israel, singing and dancing, to meet king Saul, with timbrels, with joy, and with instruments of music. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Sam.18.7" data-parsed="1Sam_18_7_0_0" data-passage="iSam 18.7" id="iSam.18.7"/><sup>7</sup>And the women sang one to another as they played, and said,</p>
<p class="poetry" id="iSam.18-p2">
Saul hath slain his thousands,</p>
<p class="poetry" id="iSam.18-p3">
And David his ten thousands.</p>
<p id="iSam.18-p4">
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Sam.18.8" data-parsed="1Sam_18_8_0_0" data-passage="iSam 18.8" id="iSam.18.8"/><sup>8</sup>And Saul was very wroth, and this saying displeased him; and he said,
They have ascribed unto David ten thousands, and to me they have ascribed but thousands: and what can he have more but the kingdom? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Sam.18.9" data-parsed="1Sam_18_9_0_0" data-passage="iSam 18.9" id="iSam.18.9"/><sup>9</sup>And Saul eyed David from that day and forward.</p>
<p id="iSam.18-p5">
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Sam.18.10" data-parsed="1Sam_18_10_0_0" data-passage="iSam 18.10" id="iSam.18.10"/><sup>10</sup>And it came to pass on the morrow, that an evil spirit from God came mightily upon Saul, and he prophesied in the midst of the house: and David played with his hand, as he did day by day. And Saul had his spear in his hand; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Sam.18.11" data-parsed="1Sam_18_11_0_0" data-passage="iSam 18.11" id="iSam.18.11"/><sup>11</sup>and Saul cast the spear; for he said, I will smite David even to the wall. And David avoided out of his presence twice. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Sam.18.12" data-parsed="1Sam_18_12_0_0" data-passage="iSam 18.12" id="iSam.18.12"/><sup>12</sup>And Saul was afraid of David, because Jehovah was with him, and was departed from Saul.

<span data-osisref="Bible:1Sam.18.13" data-parsed="1Sam_18_13_0_0" data-passage="iSam 18.13" id="iSam.18.13"/><sup>13</sup>Therefore Saul removed him from him, and made him his captain over a thousand; and he went out and came in before the people. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Sam.18.14" data-parsed="1Sam_18_14_0_0" data-passage="iSam 18.14" id="iSam.18.14"/><sup>14</sup>And David behaved himself wisely in all his ways; and Jehovah was with him. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Sam.18.15" data-parsed="1Sam_18_15_0_0" data-passage="iSam 18.15" id="iSam.18.15"/><sup>15</sup>And when Saul saw that he behaved himself very wisely, he stood in awe of him.

<span data-osisref="Bible:1Sam.18.16" data-parsed="1Sam_18_16_0_0" data-passage="iSam 18.16" id="iSam.18.16"/><sup>16</sup>But all Israel and Judah loved David; for he went out and came in before them.</p>
<p id="iSam.18-p6">
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Sam.18.17" data-parsed="1Sam_18_17_0_0" data-passage="iSam 18.17" id="iSam.18.17"/><sup>17</sup>And Saul said to David, Behold, my elder daughter Merab, her will I give thee to wife: only be thou valiant for me, and fight Jehovah's battles.
For Saul said, Let not my hand be upon him, but let the hand of the Philistines be upon him. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Sam.18.18" data-parsed="1Sam_18_18_0_0" data-passage="iSam 18.18" id="iSam.18.18"/><sup>18</sup>And David said unto Saul, Who am I, and what is my life, <i>or</i> my father's family in Israel, that I should be son-in-law to the king? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Sam.18.19" data-parsed="1Sam_18_19_0_0" data-passage="iSam 18.19" id="iSam.18.19"/><sup>19</sup>But it came to pass at the time when Merab,
Saul's daughter, should have been given to David, that she was given unto Adriel the Meholathite to wife. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Sam.18.20" data-parsed="1Sam_18_20_0_0" data-passage="iSam 18.20" id="iSam.18.20"/><sup>20</sup>And Michal, Saul's daughter, loved David: and they told Saul, and the thing pleased him. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Sam.18.21" data-parsed="1Sam_18_21_0_0" data-passage="iSam 18.21" id="iSam.18.21"/><sup>21</sup>And Saul said, I will give him her, that she may be a snare to him, and that the hand of the Philistines may be against him. Wherefore Saul said to David, Thou shalt this day be my son-in-law a second time.</p>
<p id="iSam.18-p7">
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Sam.18.22" data-parsed="1Sam_18_22_0_0" data-passage="iSam 18.22" id="iSam.18.22"/><sup>22</sup>And Saul commanded his servants, <i>saying</i>, Commune with David secretly, and say, Behold, the king hath delight in thee, and all his servants love thee: now therefore be the king's son-in-law. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Sam.18.23" data-parsed="1Sam_18_23_0_0" data-passage="iSam 18.23" id="iSam.18.23"/><sup>23</sup>And Saul's servants spake those words in the ears of David. And David said, Seemeth it to you a light thing to be the king's son-in-law, seeing that I am a poor man, and lightly esteemed? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Sam.18.24" data-parsed="1Sam_18_24_0_0" data-passage="iSam 18.24" id="iSam.18.24"/><sup>24</sup>And the servants of Saul told him, saying,
On this manner spake David. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Sam.18.25" data-parsed="1Sam_18_25_0_0" data-passage="iSam 18.25" id="iSam.18.25"/><sup>25</sup>And Saul said, Thus shall ye say to David,
The king desireth not any dowry, but a hundred foreskins of the Philistines,
to be avenged of the king's enemies. Now Saul thought to make David fall by the hand of the Philistines. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Sam.18.26" data-parsed="1Sam_18_26_0_0" data-passage="iSam 18.26" id="iSam.18.26"/><sup>26</sup>And when his servants told David these words, it pleased David well to be the king's son-in-law. And the days were not expired; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Sam.18.27" data-parsed="1Sam_18_27_0_0" data-passage="iSam 18.27" id="iSam.18.27"/><sup>27</sup>and David arose and went, he and his men, and slew of the Philistines two hundred men; and David brought their foreskins, and they gave them in full number to the king, that he might be the king's son-in-law. And Saul gave him Michal his daughter to wife. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Sam.18.28" data-parsed="1Sam_18_28_0_0" data-passage="iSam 18.28" id="iSam.18.28"/><sup>28</sup>And Saul saw and knew that Jehovah was with David; and Michal, Saul's daughter, loved him. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Sam.18.29" data-parsed="1Sam_18_29_0_0" data-passage="iSam 18.29" id="iSam.18.29"/><sup>29</sup>And Saul was yet the more afraid of David; and Saul was David's enemy continually.</p>
<p id="iSam.18-p8">
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Sam.18.30" data-parsed="1Sam_18_30_0_0" data-passage="iSam 18.30" id="iSam.18.30"/><sup>30</sup>Then the princes of the Philistines went forth: and it came to pass, as often as they went forth, that David behaved himself more wisely than all the servants of Saul; so that his name was much set by.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>