<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>1 Samuel 3</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">1 Samuel 3</span></div><div data-next="iSam.4" data-prev="iSam.2" data-progress="25.65%" data-shorttitle="" id="iSam.3" title="1 Samuel 3">
<h2 id="iSam.3-p0.1">3</h2>
<p id="iSam.3-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Sam.3.1" data-parsed="1Sam_3_1_0_0" data-passage="iSam 3.1" id="iSam.3.1"/><sup>1</sup>And the child Samuel ministered unto Jehovah before Eli. And the word of Jehovah was precious in those days; there was no frequent vision.

<span data-osisref="Bible:1Sam.3.2" data-parsed="1Sam_3_2_0_0" data-passage="iSam 3.2" id="iSam.3.2"/><sup>2</sup>And it came to pass at that time, when Eli was laid down in his place
(now his eyes had begun to wax dim, so that he could not see), 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Sam.3.3" data-parsed="1Sam_3_3_0_0" data-passage="iSam 3.3" id="iSam.3.3"/><sup>3</sup>and the lamp of God was not yet gone out, and Samuel was laid down <i>to sleep</i>,
in the temple of Jehovah, where the ark of God was; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Sam.3.4" data-parsed="1Sam_3_4_0_0" data-passage="iSam 3.4" id="iSam.3.4"/><sup>4</sup>that Jehovah called Samuel; and he said, Here am I. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Sam.3.5" data-parsed="1Sam_3_5_0_0" data-passage="iSam 3.5" id="iSam.3.5"/><sup>5</sup>And he ran unto Eli, and said, Here am I; for thou calledst me. And he said, I called not; lie down again. And he went and lay down. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Sam.3.6" data-parsed="1Sam_3_6_0_0" data-passage="iSam 3.6" id="iSam.3.6"/><sup>6</sup>And Jehovah called yet again, Samuel. And Samuel arose and went to Eli, and said, Here am I; for thou calledst me. And he answered, I called not, my son; lie down again. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Sam.3.7" data-parsed="1Sam_3_7_0_0" data-passage="iSam 3.7" id="iSam.3.7"/><sup>7</sup>Now Samuel did not yet know Jehovah, neither was the word of Jehovah yet revealed unto him. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Sam.3.8" data-parsed="1Sam_3_8_0_0" data-passage="iSam 3.8" id="iSam.3.8"/><sup>8</sup>And Jehovah called Samuel again the third time. And he arose and went to Eli, and said, Here am I; for thou calledst me. And Eli perceived that Jehovah had called the child. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Sam.3.9" data-parsed="1Sam_3_9_0_0" data-passage="iSam 3.9" id="iSam.3.9"/><sup>9</sup>Therefore Eli said unto Samuel, Go, lie down: and it shall be, if he call thee, that thou shalt say, Speak, Jehovah; for thy servant heareth. So Samuel went and lay down in his place.</p>
<p id="iSam.3-p2">
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Sam.3.10" data-parsed="1Sam_3_10_0_0" data-passage="iSam 3.10" id="iSam.3.10"/><sup>10</sup>And Jehovah came, and stood, and called as at other times, Samuel,
Samuel. Then Samuel said, Speak; for thy servant heareth. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Sam.3.11" data-parsed="1Sam_3_11_0_0" data-passage="iSam 3.11" id="iSam.3.11"/><sup>11</sup>And Jehovah said to Samuel, Behold, I will do a thing in Israel, at which both the ears of every one that heareth it shall tingle. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Sam.3.12" data-parsed="1Sam_3_12_0_0" data-passage="iSam 3.12" id="iSam.3.12"/><sup>12</sup>In that day I will perform against Eli all that I have spoken concerning his house, from the beginning even unto the end. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Sam.3.13" data-parsed="1Sam_3_13_0_0" data-passage="iSam 3.13" id="iSam.3.13"/><sup>13</sup>For I have told him that I will judge his house for ever, for the iniquity which he knew, because his sons did bring a curse upon themselves, and he restrained them not. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Sam.3.14" data-parsed="1Sam_3_14_0_0" data-passage="iSam 3.14" id="iSam.3.14"/><sup>14</sup>And therefore I have sworn unto the house of Eli, that the iniquity of Eli's house shall not be expiated with sacrifice nor offering for ever.</p>
<p id="iSam.3-p3">
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Sam.3.15" data-parsed="1Sam_3_15_0_0" data-passage="iSam 3.15" id="iSam.3.15"/><sup>15</sup>And Samuel lay until the morning, and opened the doors of the house of Jehovah. And Samuel feared to show Eli the vision. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Sam.3.16" data-parsed="1Sam_3_16_0_0" data-passage="iSam 3.16" id="iSam.3.16"/><sup>16</sup>Then Eli called Samuel, and said, Samuel, my son. And he said, Here am I. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Sam.3.17" data-parsed="1Sam_3_17_0_0" data-passage="iSam 3.17" id="iSam.3.17"/><sup>17</sup>And he said,
What is the thing that <i>Jehovah</i> hath spoken unto thee? I pray thee,
hide it not from me: God do so to thee, and more also, if thou hide anything from me of all the things that he spake unto thee. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Sam.3.18" data-parsed="1Sam_3_18_0_0" data-passage="iSam 3.18" id="iSam.3.18"/><sup>18</sup>And Samuel told him every whit, and hid nothing from him. And he said, It is Jehovah: let him do what seemeth him good.</p>
<p id="iSam.3-p4">
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Sam.3.19" data-parsed="1Sam_3_19_0_0" data-passage="iSam 3.19" id="iSam.3.19"/><sup>19</sup>And Samuel grew, and Jehovah was with him, and did let none of his words fall to the ground. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Sam.3.20" data-parsed="1Sam_3_20_0_0" data-passage="iSam 3.20" id="iSam.3.20"/><sup>20</sup>And all Israel from Dan even to Beer-sheba knew that Samuel was established to be a prophet of Jehovah. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Sam.3.21" data-parsed="1Sam_3_21_0_0" data-passage="iSam 3.21" id="iSam.3.21"/><sup>21</sup>And Jehovah appeared again in Shiloh; for Jehovah revealed himself to Samuel in Shiloh by the word of Jehovah.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>