<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>1 Samuel 24</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">1 Samuel 24</span></div><div data-next="iSam.25" data-prev="iSam.23" data-progress="27.76%" data-shorttitle="" id="iSam.24" title="1 Samuel 24">
<h2 id="iSam.24-p0.1">24</h2>
<p id="iSam.24-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Sam.24.1" data-parsed="1Sam_24_1_0_0" data-passage="iSam 24.1" id="iSam.24.1"/><sup>1</sup>And it came to pass, when Saul was returned from following the Philistines, that it was told him, saying, Behold, David is in the wilderness of En-gedi. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Sam.24.2" data-parsed="1Sam_24_2_0_0" data-passage="iSam 24.2" id="iSam.24.2"/><sup>2</sup>Then Saul took three thousand chosen men out of all Israel,
and went to seek David and his men upon the rocks of the wild goats. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Sam.24.3" data-parsed="1Sam_24_3_0_0" data-passage="iSam 24.3" id="iSam.24.3"/><sup>3</sup>And he came to the sheepcotes by the way, where was a cave; and Saul went in to cover his feet. Now David and his men were abiding in the innermost parts of the cave. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Sam.24.4" data-parsed="1Sam_24_4_0_0" data-passage="iSam 24.4" id="iSam.24.4"/><sup>4</sup>And the men of David said unto him, Behold, the day of which Jehovah said unto thee, Behold, I will deliver thine enemy into thy hand, and thou shalt do to him as it shall seem good unto thee. Then David arose, and cut off the skirt of Saul's robe privily. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Sam.24.5" data-parsed="1Sam_24_5_0_0" data-passage="iSam 24.5" id="iSam.24.5"/><sup>5</sup>And it came to pass afterward,
that David's heart smote him, because he had cut off Saul's skirt. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Sam.24.6" data-parsed="1Sam_24_6_0_0" data-passage="iSam 24.6" id="iSam.24.6"/><sup>6</sup>And he said unto his men, Jehovah forbid that I should do this thing unto my lord, Jehovah's anointed, to put forth my hand against him, seeing he is Jehovah's anointed. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Sam.24.7" data-parsed="1Sam_24_7_0_0" data-passage="iSam 24.7" id="iSam.24.7"/><sup>7</sup>So David checked his men with these words, and suffered them not to rise against Saul. And Saul rose up out of the cave, and went on his way.</p>
<p id="iSam.24-p2">
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Sam.24.8" data-parsed="1Sam_24_8_0_0" data-passage="iSam 24.8" id="iSam.24.8"/><sup>8</sup>David also arose afterward, and went out of the cave, and cried after Saul, saying, My lord the king. And when Saul looked behind him, David bowed with his face to the earth, and did obeisance. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Sam.24.9" data-parsed="1Sam_24_9_0_0" data-passage="iSam 24.9" id="iSam.24.9"/><sup>9</sup>And David said to Saul,
Wherefore hearkenest thou to men's words, saying, Behold, David seeketh thy hurt? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Sam.24.10" data-parsed="1Sam_24_10_0_0" data-passage="iSam 24.10" id="iSam.24.10"/><sup>10</sup>Behold, this day thine eyes have seen how that Jehovah had delivered thee to-day into my hand in the cave: and some bade me kill thee;
but <i>mine eye</i> spared thee; and I said, I will not put forth my hand against my lord; for he is Jehovah's anointed. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Sam.24.11" data-parsed="1Sam_24_11_0_0" data-passage="iSam 24.11" id="iSam.24.11"/><sup>11</sup>Moreover, my father,
see, yea, see the skirt of thy robe in my hand; for in that I cut off the skirt of thy robe, and killed thee not, know thou and see that there is neither evil nor transgression in my hand, and I have not sinned against thee, though thou huntest after my life to take it. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Sam.24.12" data-parsed="1Sam_24_12_0_0" data-passage="iSam 24.12" id="iSam.24.12"/><sup>12</sup>Jehovah judge between me and thee, and Jehovah avenge me of thee; but my hand shall not be upon thee. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Sam.24.13" data-parsed="1Sam_24_13_0_0" data-passage="iSam 24.13" id="iSam.24.13"/><sup>13</sup>As saith the proverb of the ancients, Out of the wicked cometh forth wickedness; but my hand shall not be upon thee. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Sam.24.14" data-parsed="1Sam_24_14_0_0" data-passage="iSam 24.14" id="iSam.24.14"/><sup>14</sup>After whom is the king of Israel come out? after whom dost thou pursue? after a dead dog, after a flea. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Sam.24.15" data-parsed="1Sam_24_15_0_0" data-passage="iSam 24.15" id="iSam.24.15"/><sup>15</sup>Jehovah therefore be judge, and give sentence between me and thee, and see, and plead my cause, and deliver me out of thy hand.</p>
<p id="iSam.24-p3">
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Sam.24.16" data-parsed="1Sam_24_16_0_0" data-passage="iSam 24.16" id="iSam.24.16"/><sup>16</sup>And it came to pass, when David had made an end of speaking these words unto Saul, that Saul said, Is this thy voice, my son David? And Saul lifted up his voice, and wept. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Sam.24.17" data-parsed="1Sam_24_17_0_0" data-passage="iSam 24.17" id="iSam.24.17"/><sup>17</sup>And he said to David, Thou art more righteous than I; for thou hast rendered unto me good, whereas I have rendered unto thee evil. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Sam.24.18" data-parsed="1Sam_24_18_0_0" data-passage="iSam 24.18" id="iSam.24.18"/><sup>18</sup>And thou hast declared this day how that thou hast dealt well with me, forasmuch as when Jehovah had delivered me up into thy hand,
thou killedst me not. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Sam.24.19" data-parsed="1Sam_24_19_0_0" data-passage="iSam 24.19" id="iSam.24.19"/><sup>19</sup>For if a man find his enemy, will he let him go well away? wherefore Jehovah reward thee good for that which thou hast done unto me this day. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Sam.24.20" data-parsed="1Sam_24_20_0_0" data-passage="iSam 24.20" id="iSam.24.20"/><sup>20</sup>And now, behold, I know that thou shalt surely be king, and that the kingdom of Israel shall be established in thy hand.

<span data-osisref="Bible:1Sam.24.21" data-parsed="1Sam_24_21_0_0" data-passage="iSam 24.21" id="iSam.24.21"/><sup>21</sup>Swear now therefore unto me by Jehovah, that thou wilt not cut off my seed after me, and that thou wilt not destroy my name out of my father's house. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Sam.24.22" data-parsed="1Sam_24_22_0_0" data-passage="iSam 24.22" id="iSam.24.22"/><sup>22</sup>And David sware unto Saul. And Saul went home; but David and his men gat them up unto the stronghold.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>