<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>1 Samuel 17</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">1 Samuel 17</span></div><div data-next="iSam.18" data-prev="iSam.16" data-progress="26.95%" data-shorttitle="" id="iSam.17" title="1 Samuel 17">
<h2 id="iSam.17-p0.1">17</h2>
<p id="iSam.17-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Sam.17.1" data-parsed="1Sam_17_1_0_0" data-passage="iSam 17.1" id="iSam.17.1"/><sup>1</sup>Now the Philistines gathered together their armies to battle; and they were gathered together at Socoh, which belongeth to Judah, and encamped between Socoh and Azekah, in Ephes-dammim. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Sam.17.2" data-parsed="1Sam_17_2_0_0" data-passage="iSam 17.2" id="iSam.17.2"/><sup>2</sup>And Saul and the men of Israel were gathered together, and encamped in the vale of Elah, and set the battle in array against the Philistines. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Sam.17.3" data-parsed="1Sam_17_3_0_0" data-passage="iSam 17.3" id="iSam.17.3"/><sup>3</sup>And the Philistines stood on the mountain on the one side, and Israel stood on the mountain on the other side: and there was a valley between them. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Sam.17.4" data-parsed="1Sam_17_4_0_0" data-passage="iSam 17.4" id="iSam.17.4"/><sup>4</sup>And there went out a champion out of the camp of the Philistines, named Goliath, of Gath, whose height was six cubits and a span. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Sam.17.5" data-parsed="1Sam_17_5_0_0" data-passage="iSam 17.5" id="iSam.17.5"/><sup>5</sup>And he had a helmet of brass upon his head, and he was clad with a coat of mail; and the weight of the coat was five thousand shekels of brass. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Sam.17.6" data-parsed="1Sam_17_6_0_0" data-passage="iSam 17.6" id="iSam.17.6"/><sup>6</sup>And he had greaves of brass upon his legs, and a javelin of brass between his shoulders. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Sam.17.7" data-parsed="1Sam_17_7_0_0" data-passage="iSam 17.7" id="iSam.17.7"/><sup>7</sup>And the staff of his spear was like a weaver's beam; and his spear's head <i>weighed</i> six hundred shekels of iron: and his shield-bearer went before him. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Sam.17.8" data-parsed="1Sam_17_8_0_0" data-passage="iSam 17.8" id="iSam.17.8"/><sup>8</sup>And he stood and cried unto the armies of Israel, and said unto them, Why are ye come out to set your battle in array? am not I a Philistine, and ye servants to Saul?
choose you a man for you, and let him come down to me. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Sam.17.9" data-parsed="1Sam_17_9_0_0" data-passage="iSam 17.9" id="iSam.17.9"/><sup>9</sup>If he be able to fight with me, and kill me, then will we be your servants; but if I prevail against him, and kill him, then shall ye be our servants, and serve us.

<span data-osisref="Bible:1Sam.17.10" data-parsed="1Sam_17_10_0_0" data-passage="iSam 17.10" id="iSam.17.10"/><sup>10</sup>And the Philistine said, I defy the armies of Israel this day; give me a man, that we may fight together. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Sam.17.11" data-parsed="1Sam_17_11_0_0" data-passage="iSam 17.11" id="iSam.17.11"/><sup>11</sup>And when Saul and all Israel heard those words of the Philistine, they were dismayed, and greatly afraid.</p>
<p id="iSam.17-p2">
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Sam.17.12" data-parsed="1Sam_17_12_0_0" data-passage="iSam 17.12" id="iSam.17.12"/><sup>12</sup>Now David was the son of that Ephrathite of Beth-lehem-judah, whose name was Jesse; and he had eight sons: and the man was an old man in the days of Saul, stricken <i>in years</i> among men. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Sam.17.13" data-parsed="1Sam_17_13_0_0" data-passage="iSam 17.13" id="iSam.17.13"/><sup>13</sup>And the three eldest sons of Jesse had gone after Saul to the battle: and the names of his three sons that went to the battle were Eliab the first-born, and next unto him Abinadab, and the third Shammah. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Sam.17.14" data-parsed="1Sam_17_14_0_0" data-passage="iSam 17.14" id="iSam.17.14"/><sup>14</sup>And David was the youngest; and the three eldest followed Saul. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Sam.17.15" data-parsed="1Sam_17_15_0_0" data-passage="iSam 17.15" id="iSam.17.15"/><sup>15</sup>Now David went to and fro from Saul to feed his father's sheep at Beth-lehem. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Sam.17.16" data-parsed="1Sam_17_16_0_0" data-passage="iSam 17.16" id="iSam.17.16"/><sup>16</sup>And the Philistine drew near morning and evening, and presented himself forty days.</p>
<p id="iSam.17-p3">
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Sam.17.17" data-parsed="1Sam_17_17_0_0" data-passage="iSam 17.17" id="iSam.17.17"/><sup>17</sup>And Jesse said unto David his son, Take now for thy brethren an ephah of this parched grain, and these ten loaves, and carry <i>them</i> quickly to the camp to thy brethren; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Sam.17.18" data-parsed="1Sam_17_18_0_0" data-passage="iSam 17.18" id="iSam.17.18"/><sup>18</sup>and bring these ten cheeses unto the captain of their thousand, and look how thy brethren fare, and take their pledge. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Sam.17.19" data-parsed="1Sam_17_19_0_0" data-passage="iSam 17.19" id="iSam.17.19"/><sup>19</sup>Now Saul, and they, and all the men of Israel, were in the vale of Elah, fighting with the Philistines.</p>
<p id="iSam.17-p4">
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Sam.17.20" data-parsed="1Sam_17_20_0_0" data-passage="iSam 17.20" id="iSam.17.20"/><sup>20</sup>And David rose up early in the morning, and left the sheep with a keeper, and took, and went, as Jesse had commanded him; and he came to the place of the wagons, as the host which was going forth to the fight shouted for the battle. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Sam.17.21" data-parsed="1Sam_17_21_0_0" data-passage="iSam 17.21" id="iSam.17.21"/><sup>21</sup>And Israel and the Philistines put the battle in array,
army against army. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Sam.17.22" data-parsed="1Sam_17_22_0_0" data-passage="iSam 17.22" id="iSam.17.22"/><sup>22</sup>And David left his baggage in the hand of the keeper of the baggage, and ran to the army, and came and saluted his brethren.

<span data-osisref="Bible:1Sam.17.23" data-parsed="1Sam_17_23_0_0" data-passage="iSam 17.23" id="iSam.17.23"/><sup>23</sup>And as he talked with them, behold, there came up the champion, the Philistine of Gath, Goliath by name, out of the ranks of the Philistines, and spake according to the same words: and David heard them. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Sam.17.24" data-parsed="1Sam_17_24_0_0" data-passage="iSam 17.24" id="iSam.17.24"/><sup>24</sup>And all the men of Israel, when they saw the man, fled from him, and were sore afraid.

<span data-osisref="Bible:1Sam.17.25" data-parsed="1Sam_17_25_0_0" data-passage="iSam 17.25" id="iSam.17.25"/><sup>25</sup>And the men of Israel said, Have ye seen this man that is come up?
surely to defy Israel is he come up: and it shall be, that the man who killeth him, the king will enrich him with great riches, and will give him his daughter, and make his father's house free in Israel. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Sam.17.26" data-parsed="1Sam_17_26_0_0" data-passage="iSam 17.26" id="iSam.17.26"/><sup>26</sup>And David spake to the men that stood by him, saying, What shall be done to the man that killeth this Philistine, and taketh away the reproach from Israel? for who is this uncircumcised Philistine, that he should defy the armies of the living God? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Sam.17.27" data-parsed="1Sam_17_27_0_0" data-passage="iSam 17.27" id="iSam.17.27"/><sup>27</sup>And the people answered him after this manner, saying, So shall it be done to the man that killeth him.</p>
<p id="iSam.17-p5">
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Sam.17.28" data-parsed="1Sam_17_28_0_0" data-passage="iSam 17.28" id="iSam.17.28"/><sup>28</sup>And Eliab his eldest brother heard when he spake unto the men; and Eliab's anger was kindled against David, and he said, Why art thou come down?
and with whom hast thou left those few sheep in the wilderness? I know thy pride, and the naughtiness of thy heart; for thou art come down that thou mightest see the battle. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Sam.17.29" data-parsed="1Sam_17_29_0_0" data-passage="iSam 17.29" id="iSam.17.29"/><sup>29</sup>And David said, What have I now done? Is there not a cause? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Sam.17.30" data-parsed="1Sam_17_30_0_0" data-passage="iSam 17.30" id="iSam.17.30"/><sup>30</sup>And he turned away from him toward another, and spake after the same manner: and the people answered him again after the former manner.</p>
<p id="iSam.17-p6">
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Sam.17.31" data-parsed="1Sam_17_31_0_0" data-passage="iSam 17.31" id="iSam.17.31"/><sup>31</sup>And when the words were heard which David spake, they rehearsed them before Saul; and he sent for him. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Sam.17.32" data-parsed="1Sam_17_32_0_0" data-passage="iSam 17.32" id="iSam.17.32"/><sup>32</sup>And David said to Saul, Let no man's heart fail because of him; thy servant will go and fight with this Philistine. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Sam.17.33" data-parsed="1Sam_17_33_0_0" data-passage="iSam 17.33" id="iSam.17.33"/><sup>33</sup>And Saul said to David, Thou art not able to go against this Philistine to fight with him; for thou art but a youth, and he a man of war from his youth. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Sam.17.34" data-parsed="1Sam_17_34_0_0" data-passage="iSam 17.34" id="iSam.17.34"/><sup>34</sup>And David said unto Saul, Thy servant was keeping his father's sheep; and when there came a lion, or a bear, and took a lamb out of the flock, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Sam.17.35" data-parsed="1Sam_17_35_0_0" data-passage="iSam 17.35" id="iSam.17.35"/><sup>35</sup>I went out after him, and smote him, and delivered it out of his mouth; and when he arose against me, I caught him by his beard,
and smote him, and slew him. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Sam.17.36" data-parsed="1Sam_17_36_0_0" data-passage="iSam 17.36" id="iSam.17.36"/><sup>36</sup>Thy servant smote both the lion and the bear: and this uncircumcised Philistine shall be as one of them, seeing he hath defied the armies of the living God. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Sam.17.37" data-parsed="1Sam_17_37_0_0" data-passage="iSam 17.37" id="iSam.17.37"/><sup>37</sup>And David said, Jehovah that delivered me out of the paw of the lion, and out of the paw of the bear, he will deliver me out of the hand of this Philistine. And Saul said unto David,
Go, and Jehovah shall be with thee. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Sam.17.38" data-parsed="1Sam_17_38_0_0" data-passage="iSam 17.38" id="iSam.17.38"/><sup>38</sup>And Saul clad David with his apparel, and he put a helmet of brass upon his head, and he clad him with a coat of mail. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Sam.17.39" data-parsed="1Sam_17_39_0_0" data-passage="iSam 17.39" id="iSam.17.39"/><sup>39</sup>And David girded his sword upon his apparel, and he assayed to go; for he had not proved it. And David said unto Saul, I cannot go with these; for I have not proved them. And David put them off him.

<span data-osisref="Bible:1Sam.17.40" data-parsed="1Sam_17_40_0_0" data-passage="iSam 17.40" id="iSam.17.40"/><sup>40</sup>And he took his staff in his hand, and chose him five smooth stones out of the brook, and put them in the shepherd's bag which he had, even in his wallet; and his sling was in his hand: and he drew near to the Philistine.</p>
<p id="iSam.17-p7">
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Sam.17.41" data-parsed="1Sam_17_41_0_0" data-passage="iSam 17.41" id="iSam.17.41"/><sup>41</sup>And the Philistine came on and drew near unto David; and the man that bare the shield went before him. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Sam.17.42" data-parsed="1Sam_17_42_0_0" data-passage="iSam 17.42" id="iSam.17.42"/><sup>42</sup>And when the Philistine looked about,
and saw David, he disdained him; for he was but a youth, and ruddy, and withal of a fair countenance. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Sam.17.43" data-parsed="1Sam_17_43_0_0" data-passage="iSam 17.43" id="iSam.17.43"/><sup>43</sup>And the Philistine said unto David, Am I a dog, that thou comest to me with staves? And the Philistine cursed David by his gods. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Sam.17.44" data-parsed="1Sam_17_44_0_0" data-passage="iSam 17.44" id="iSam.17.44"/><sup>44</sup>And the Philistine said to David, Come to me, and I will give thy flesh unto the birds of the heavens, and to the beasts of the field.

<span data-osisref="Bible:1Sam.17.45" data-parsed="1Sam_17_45_0_0" data-passage="iSam 17.45" id="iSam.17.45"/><sup>45</sup>Then said David to the Philistine, Thou comest to me with a sword, and with a spear, and with a javelin: but I come to thee in the name of Jehovah of hosts, the God of the armies of Israel, whom thou hast defied. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Sam.17.46" data-parsed="1Sam_17_46_0_0" data-passage="iSam 17.46" id="iSam.17.46"/><sup>46</sup>This day will Jehovah deliver thee into my hand; and I will smite thee, and take thy head from off thee; and I will give the dead bodies of the host of the Philistines this day unto the birds of the heavens, and to the wild beasts of the earth; that all the earth may know that there is a God in Israel,

<span data-osisref="Bible:1Sam.17.47" data-parsed="1Sam_17_47_0_0" data-passage="iSam 17.47" id="iSam.17.47"/><sup>47</sup>and that all this assembly may know that Jehovah saveth not with sword and spear: for the battle is Jehovah's, and he will give you into our hand.

<span data-osisref="Bible:1Sam.17.48" data-parsed="1Sam_17_48_0_0" data-passage="iSam 17.48" id="iSam.17.48"/><sup>48</sup>And it came to pass, when the Philistine arose, and came and drew nigh to meet David, that David hastened, and ran toward the army to meet the Philistine. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Sam.17.49" data-parsed="1Sam_17_49_0_0" data-passage="iSam 17.49" id="iSam.17.49"/><sup>49</sup>And David put his hand in his bag, and took thence a stone,
and slang it, and smote the Philistine in his forehead; and the stone sank into his forehead, and he fell upon his face to the earth.</p>
<p id="iSam.17-p8">
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Sam.17.50" data-parsed="1Sam_17_50_0_0" data-passage="iSam 17.50" id="iSam.17.50"/><sup>50</sup>So David prevailed over the Philistine with a sling and with a stone,
and smote the Philistine, and slew him; but there was no sword in the hand of David. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Sam.17.51" data-parsed="1Sam_17_51_0_0" data-passage="iSam 17.51" id="iSam.17.51"/><sup>51</sup>Then David ran, and stood over the Philistine, and took his sword, and drew it out of the sheath thereof, and slew him, and cut off his head therewith. And when the Philistines saw that their champion was dead,
they fled. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Sam.17.52" data-parsed="1Sam_17_52_0_0" data-passage="iSam 17.52" id="iSam.17.52"/><sup>52</sup>And the men of Israel and of Judah arose, and shouted, and pursued the Philistines, until thou comest to Gai, and to the gates of Ekron.
And the wounded of the Philistines fell down by the way to Shaaraim, even unto Gath, and unto Ekron. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Sam.17.53" data-parsed="1Sam_17_53_0_0" data-passage="iSam 17.53" id="iSam.17.53"/><sup>53</sup>And the children of Israel returned from chasing after the Philistines, and they plundered their camp. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Sam.17.54" data-parsed="1Sam_17_54_0_0" data-passage="iSam 17.54" id="iSam.17.54"/><sup>54</sup>And David took the head of the Philistine, and brought it to Jerusalem; but he put his armor in his tent.</p>
<p id="iSam.17-p9">
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Sam.17.55" data-parsed="1Sam_17_55_0_0" data-passage="iSam 17.55" id="iSam.17.55"/><sup>55</sup>And when Saul saw David go forth against the Philistine, he said unto Abner, the captain of the host, Abner, whose son is this youth? And Abner said, As thy soul liveth, O king, I cannot tell. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Sam.17.56" data-parsed="1Sam_17_56_0_0" data-passage="iSam 17.56" id="iSam.17.56"/><sup>56</sup>And the king said,
Inquire thou whose son the stripling is. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Sam.17.57" data-parsed="1Sam_17_57_0_0" data-passage="iSam 17.57" id="iSam.17.57"/><sup>57</sup>And as David returned from the slaughter of the Philistine, Abner took him, and brought him before Saul with the head of the Philistine in his hand. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Sam.17.58" data-parsed="1Sam_17_58_0_0" data-passage="iSam 17.58" id="iSam.17.58"/><sup>58</sup>And Saul said to him, Whose son art thou, thou young man? And David answered, I am the son of thy servant Jesse the Beth-lehemite.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>