<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>1 Timothy 6</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">1 Timothy 6</span></div><div data-next="iiTim" data-prev="iTim.5" data-progress="95.86%" data-shorttitle="" id="iTim.6" title="1 Timothy 6">
<h2 id="iTim.6-p0.1">6</h2>
<p id="iTim.6-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Tim.6.1" data-parsed="1Tim_6_1_0_0" data-passage="iTim 6.1" id="iTim.6.1"/><sup>1</sup>Let as many as are servants under the yoke count their own masters worthy of all honor, that the name of God and the doctrine be not blasphemed.

<span data-osisref="Bible:1Tim.6.2" data-parsed="1Tim_6_2_0_0" data-passage="iTim 6.2" id="iTim.6.2"/><sup>2</sup>And they that have believing masters, let them not despise them, because they are brethren; but let them serve them the rather, because they that partake of the benefit are believing and beloved. These things teach and exhort. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Tim.6.3" data-parsed="1Tim_6_3_0_0" data-passage="iTim 6.3" id="iTim.6.3"/><sup>3</sup>If any man teacheth a different doctrine, and consenteth not to sound words, <i>even</i> the words of our Lord Jesus Christ, and to the doctrine which is according to godliness; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Tim.6.4" data-parsed="1Tim_6_4_0_0" data-passage="iTim 6.4" id="iTim.6.4"/><sup>4</sup>he is puffed up, knowing nothing, but doting about questionings and disputes of words, whereof cometh envy, strife, railings, evil surmisings, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Tim.6.5" data-parsed="1Tim_6_5_0_0" data-passage="iTim 6.5" id="iTim.6.5"/><sup>5</sup>wranglings of men corrupted in mind and bereft of the truth, supposing that godliness is a way of gain.

<span data-osisref="Bible:1Tim.6.6" data-parsed="1Tim_6_6_0_0" data-passage="iTim 6.6" id="iTim.6.6"/><sup>6</sup>But godliness with contentment is great gain: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Tim.6.7" data-parsed="1Tim_6_7_0_0" data-passage="iTim 6.7" id="iTim.6.7"/><sup>7</sup>for we brought nothing into the world, for neither can we carry anything out; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Tim.6.8" data-parsed="1Tim_6_8_0_0" data-passage="iTim 6.8" id="iTim.6.8"/><sup>8</sup>but having food and covering we shall be therewith content. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Tim.6.9" data-parsed="1Tim_6_9_0_0" data-passage="iTim 6.9" id="iTim.6.9"/><sup>9</sup>But they that are minded to be rich fall into a temptation and a snare and many foolish and hurtful lusts, such as drown men in destruction and perdition. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Tim.6.10" data-parsed="1Tim_6_10_0_0" data-passage="iTim 6.10" id="iTim.6.10"/><sup>10</sup>For the love of money is a root of all kinds of evil: which some reaching after have been led astray from the faith, and have pierced themselves through with many sorrows. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Tim.6.11" data-parsed="1Tim_6_11_0_0" data-passage="iTim 6.11" id="iTim.6.11"/><sup>11</sup>But thou, O man of God, flee these things; and follow after righteousness, godliness, faith, love, patience, meekness. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Tim.6.12" data-parsed="1Tim_6_12_0_0" data-passage="iTim 6.12" id="iTim.6.12"/><sup>12</sup>Fight the good fight of the faith, lay hold on the life eternal, whereunto thou wast called, and didst confess the good confession in the sight of many witnesses.

<span data-osisref="Bible:1Tim.6.13" data-parsed="1Tim_6_13_0_0" data-passage="iTim 6.13" id="iTim.6.13"/><sup>13</sup>I charge thee in the sight of God, who giveth life to all things, and of Christ Jesus, who before Pontius Pilate witnessed the good confession;

<span data-osisref="Bible:1Tim.6.14" data-parsed="1Tim_6_14_0_0" data-passage="iTim 6.14" id="iTim.6.14"/><sup>14</sup>that thou keep the commandment, without spot, without reproach, until the appearing of our Lord Jesus Christ: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Tim.6.15" data-parsed="1Tim_6_15_0_0" data-passage="iTim 6.15" id="iTim.6.15"/><sup>15</sup>which in its own times he shall show, who is the blessed and only Potentate, the King of kings, and Lord of lords; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Tim.6.16" data-parsed="1Tim_6_16_0_0" data-passage="iTim 6.16" id="iTim.6.16"/><sup>16</sup>who only hath immortality, dwelling in light unapproachable;
whom no man hath seen, nor can see: to whom <i>be</i> honor and power eternal. Amen. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Tim.6.17" data-parsed="1Tim_6_17_0_0" data-passage="iTim 6.17" id="iTim.6.17"/><sup>17</sup>Charge them that are rich in this present world, that they be not highminded, nor have their hope set on the uncertainty of riches,
but on God, who giveth us richly all things to enjoy; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Tim.6.18" data-parsed="1Tim_6_18_0_0" data-passage="iTim 6.18" id="iTim.6.18"/><sup>18</sup>that they do good, that they be rich in good works, that they be ready to distribute,
willing to communicate; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Tim.6.19" data-parsed="1Tim_6_19_0_0" data-passage="iTim 6.19" id="iTim.6.19"/><sup>19</sup>laying up in store for themselves a good foundation against the time to come, that they may lay hold on the life which is <i>life</i> indeed. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Tim.6.20" data-parsed="1Tim_6_20_0_0" data-passage="iTim 6.20" id="iTim.6.20"/><sup>20</sup>O Timothy, guard that which is committed unto <i>thee</i>, turning away from the profane babblings and oppositions of the knowledge which is falsely so called; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Tim.6.21" data-parsed="1Tim_6_21_0_0" data-passage="iTim 6.21" id="iTim.6.21"/><sup>21</sup>which some professing have erred concerning the faith. Grace be with you.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>