<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>1 Timothy 4</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">1 Timothy 4</span></div><div data-next="iTim.5" data-prev="iTim.3" data-progress="95.76%" data-shorttitle="" id="iTim.4" title="1 Timothy 4">
<h2 id="iTim.4-p0.1">4</h2>
<p id="iTim.4-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Tim.4.1" data-parsed="1Tim_4_1_0_0" data-passage="iTim 4.1" id="iTim.4.1"/><sup>1</sup>But the Spirit saith expressly, that in later times some shall fall away from the faith, giving heed to seducing spirits and doctrines of demons,

<span data-osisref="Bible:1Tim.4.2" data-parsed="1Tim_4_2_0_0" data-passage="iTim 4.2" id="iTim.4.2"/><sup>2</sup>through the hypocrisy of men that speak lies, branded in their own conscience as with a hot iron; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Tim.4.3" data-parsed="1Tim_4_3_0_0" data-passage="iTim 4.3" id="iTim.4.3"/><sup>3</sup>forbidding to marry, <i>and commanding</i> to abstain from meats, which God created to be received with thanksgiving by them that believe and know the truth. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Tim.4.4" data-parsed="1Tim_4_4_0_0" data-passage="iTim 4.4" id="iTim.4.4"/><sup>4</sup>For every creature of God is good, and nothing is to be rejected, if it be received with thanksgiving: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Tim.4.5" data-parsed="1Tim_4_5_0_0" data-passage="iTim 4.5" id="iTim.4.5"/><sup>5</sup>for it is sanctified through the word of God and prayer.

<span data-osisref="Bible:1Tim.4.6" data-parsed="1Tim_4_6_0_0" data-passage="iTim 4.6" id="iTim.4.6"/><sup>6</sup>If thou put the brethren in mind of these things, thou shalt be a good minister of Christ Jesus, nourished in the words of the faith, and of the good doctrine which thou hast followed <i>until now</i>: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Tim.4.7" data-parsed="1Tim_4_7_0_0" data-passage="iTim 4.7" id="iTim.4.7"/><sup>7</sup>but refuse profane and old wives' fables. And exercise thyself unto godliness: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Tim.4.8" data-parsed="1Tim_4_8_0_0" data-passage="iTim 4.8" id="iTim.4.8"/><sup>8</sup>for bodily exercise is profitable for a little; but godliness is profitable for all things, having promise of the life which now is, and of that which is to come. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Tim.4.9" data-parsed="1Tim_4_9_0_0" data-passage="iTim 4.9" id="iTim.4.9"/><sup>9</sup>Faithful is the saying, and worthy of all acceptation. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Tim.4.10" data-parsed="1Tim_4_10_0_0" data-passage="iTim 4.10" id="iTim.4.10"/><sup>10</sup>For to this end we labor and strive, because we have our hope set on the living God, who is the Saviour of all men, specially of them that believe.

<span data-osisref="Bible:1Tim.4.11" data-parsed="1Tim_4_11_0_0" data-passage="iTim 4.11" id="iTim.4.11"/><sup>11</sup>These things command and teach. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Tim.4.12" data-parsed="1Tim_4_12_0_0" data-passage="iTim 4.12" id="iTim.4.12"/><sup>12</sup>Let no man despise thy youth; but be thou an ensample to them that believe, in word, in manner of life, in love, in faith, in purity. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Tim.4.13" data-parsed="1Tim_4_13_0_0" data-passage="iTim 4.13" id="iTim.4.13"/><sup>13</sup>Till I come, give heed to reading, to exhortation, to teaching. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Tim.4.14" data-parsed="1Tim_4_14_0_0" data-passage="iTim 4.14" id="iTim.4.14"/><sup>14</sup>Neglect not the gift that is in thee, which was given thee by prophecy, with the laying on of the hands of the presbytery. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Tim.4.15" data-parsed="1Tim_4_15_0_0" data-passage="iTim 4.15" id="iTim.4.15"/><sup>15</sup>Be diligent in these things; give thyself wholly to them;
that thy progress may be manifest unto all. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:1Tim.4.16" data-parsed="1Tim_4_16_0_0" data-passage="iTim 4.16" id="iTim.4.16"/><sup>16</sup>Take heed to thyself, and to thy teaching. Continue in these things; for in doing this thou shalt save both thyself and them that hear thee.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>