<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>James 2</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">James 2</span></div><div data-next="Jas.3" data-prev="Jas.1" data-progress="97.30%" data-shorttitle="" id="Jas.2" title="James 2">
<h2 id="Jas.2-p0.1">2</h2>
<p id="Jas.2-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jas.2.1" data-parsed="Jas_2_1_0_0" data-passage="Jas 2.1" id="Jas.2.1"/><sup>1</sup>My brethren, hold not the faith of our Lord Jesus Christ, <i>the Lord</i> of glory, with respect of persons. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jas.2.2" data-parsed="Jas_2_2_0_0" data-passage="Jas 2.2" id="Jas.2.2"/><sup>2</sup>For if there come into your synagogue a man with a gold ring, in fine clothing, and there come in also a poor man in vile clothing; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jas.2.3" data-parsed="Jas_2_3_0_0" data-passage="Jas 2.3" id="Jas.2.3"/><sup>3</sup>and ye have regard to him that weareth the fine clothing, and say, Sit thou here in a good place; and ye say to the poor man, Stand thou there, or sit under my footstool; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jas.2.4" data-parsed="Jas_2_4_0_0" data-passage="Jas 2.4" id="Jas.2.4"/><sup>4</sup>Do ye not make distinctions among yourselves, and become judges with evil thoughts?

<span data-osisref="Bible:Jas.2.5" data-parsed="Jas_2_5_0_0" data-passage="Jas 2.5" id="Jas.2.5"/><sup>5</sup>Hearken, my beloved brethren; did not God choose them that are poor as to the world <i>to be</i> rich in faith, and heirs of the kingdom which he promised to them that love him? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jas.2.6" data-parsed="Jas_2_6_0_0" data-passage="Jas 2.6" id="Jas.2.6"/><sup>6</sup>But ye have dishonored the poor man. Do not the rich oppress you, and themselves drag you before the judgment-seats?

<span data-osisref="Bible:Jas.2.7" data-parsed="Jas_2_7_0_0" data-passage="Jas 2.7" id="Jas.2.7"/><sup>7</sup>Do not they blaspheme the honorable name by which ye are called?

<span data-osisref="Bible:Jas.2.8" data-parsed="Jas_2_8_0_0" data-passage="Jas 2.8" id="Jas.2.8"/><sup>8</sup>Howbeit if ye fulfil the royal law, according to the span, Thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself, ye do well: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jas.2.9" data-parsed="Jas_2_9_0_0" data-passage="Jas 2.9" id="Jas.2.9"/><sup>9</sup>but if ye have respect of persons, ye commit sin, being convicted by the law as transgressors.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Jas.2.10" data-parsed="Jas_2_10_0_0" data-passage="Jas 2.10" id="Jas.2.10"/><sup>10</sup>For whosoever shall keep the whole law, and yet stumble in one <i>point</i>, he is become guilty of all. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jas.2.11" data-parsed="Jas_2_11_0_0" data-passage="Jas 2.11" id="Jas.2.11"/><sup>11</sup>For he that said, Do not commit adultery, said also, Do not kill. Now if thou dost not commit adultery, but killest, thou art become a transgressor of the law. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jas.2.12" data-parsed="Jas_2_12_0_0" data-passage="Jas 2.12" id="Jas.2.12"/><sup>12</sup>So speak ye, and so do, as men that are to be judged by a law of liberty.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Jas.2.13" data-parsed="Jas_2_13_0_0" data-passage="Jas 2.13" id="Jas.2.13"/><sup>13</sup>For judgment <i>is</i> without mercy to him that hath showed no mercy:
mercy glorieth against judgment. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jas.2.14" data-parsed="Jas_2_14_0_0" data-passage="Jas 2.14" id="Jas.2.14"/><sup>14</sup>What doth it profit, my brethren, if a man say he hath faith, but have not works? can that faith save him? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jas.2.15" data-parsed="Jas_2_15_0_0" data-passage="Jas 2.15" id="Jas.2.15"/><sup>15</sup>If a brother or sister be naked and in lack of daily food, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jas.2.16" data-parsed="Jas_2_16_0_0" data-passage="Jas 2.16" id="Jas.2.16"/><sup>16</sup>and one of you say unto them, Go in peace, be ye warmed and filled; and yet ye give them not the things needful to the body; what doth it profit? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jas.2.17" data-parsed="Jas_2_17_0_0" data-passage="Jas 2.17" id="Jas.2.17"/><sup>17</sup>Even so faith, if it have not works, is dead in itself. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jas.2.18" data-parsed="Jas_2_18_0_0" data-passage="Jas 2.18" id="Jas.2.18"/><sup>18</sup>Yea, a man will say, Thou hast faith, and I have works: show me thy faith apart from <i>thy</i> works, and I by my works will show thee <i>my</i> faith. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jas.2.19" data-parsed="Jas_2_19_0_0" data-passage="Jas 2.19" id="Jas.2.19"/><sup>19</sup>Thou believest that God is one; thou doest well: the demons also believe, and shudder. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jas.2.20" data-parsed="Jas_2_20_0_0" data-passage="Jas 2.20" id="Jas.2.20"/><sup>20</sup>But wilt thou know, O vain man, that faith apart from works is barren? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jas.2.21" data-parsed="Jas_2_21_0_0" data-passage="Jas 2.21" id="Jas.2.21"/><sup>21</sup>Was not Abraham our father justified by works, in that he offered up Isaac his son upon the altar? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jas.2.22" data-parsed="Jas_2_22_0_0" data-passage="Jas 2.22" id="Jas.2.22"/><sup>22</sup>Thou seest that faith wrought with his works, and by works was faith made perfect; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jas.2.23" data-parsed="Jas_2_23_0_0" data-passage="Jas 2.23" id="Jas.2.23"/><sup>23</sup>and the span was fulfilled which saith, And Abraham believed God, and it was reckoned unto him for righteousness; and he was called the friend of God. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jas.2.24" data-parsed="Jas_2_24_0_0" data-passage="Jas 2.24" id="Jas.2.24"/><sup>24</sup>Ye see that by works a man is justified, and not only by faith. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jas.2.25" data-parsed="Jas_2_25_0_0" data-passage="Jas 2.25" id="Jas.2.25"/><sup>25</sup>And in like manner was not also Rahab the harlot justified by works, in that she received the messengers, and sent them out another way? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jas.2.26" data-parsed="Jas_2_26_0_0" data-passage="Jas 2.26" id="Jas.2.26"/><sup>26</sup>For as the body apart from the spirit is dead, even so faith apart from works is dead.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>