<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>James 3</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">James 3</span></div><div data-next="Jas.4" data-prev="Jas.2" data-progress="97.37%" data-shorttitle="" id="Jas.3" title="James 3">
<h2 id="Jas.3-p0.1">3</h2>
<p id="Jas.3-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jas.3.1" data-parsed="Jas_3_1_0_0" data-passage="Jas 3.1" id="Jas.3.1"/><sup>1</sup>Be not many <i>of you</i> teachers, my brethren, knowing that we shall receive heavier judgment. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jas.3.2" data-parsed="Jas_3_2_0_0" data-passage="Jas 3.2" id="Jas.3.2"/><sup>2</sup>For in many things we all stumble. If any stumbleth not in word, the same is a perfect man, able to bridle the whole body also. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jas.3.3" data-parsed="Jas_3_3_0_0" data-passage="Jas 3.3" id="Jas.3.3"/><sup>3</sup>Now if we put the horses' bridles into their mouths that they may obey us, we turn about their whole body also. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jas.3.4" data-parsed="Jas_3_4_0_0" data-passage="Jas 3.4" id="Jas.3.4"/><sup>4</sup>Behold, the ships also, though they are so great and are driven by rough winds, are yet turned about by a very small rudder, whither the impulse of the steersman willeth. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jas.3.5" data-parsed="Jas_3_5_0_0" data-passage="Jas 3.5" id="Jas.3.5"/><sup>5</sup>So the tongue also is a little member, and boasteth great things. Behold, how much wood is kindled by how small a fire! 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jas.3.6" data-parsed="Jas_3_6_0_0" data-passage="Jas 3.6" id="Jas.3.6"/><sup>6</sup>And the tongue is a fire: the world of iniquity among our members is the tongue,
which defileth the whole body, and setteth on fire the wheel of nature, and is set on fire by hell. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jas.3.7" data-parsed="Jas_3_7_0_0" data-passage="Jas 3.7" id="Jas.3.7"/><sup>7</sup>For every kind of beasts and birds, of creeping things and things in the sea, is tamed, and hath been tamed by mankind.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Jas.3.8" data-parsed="Jas_3_8_0_0" data-passage="Jas 3.8" id="Jas.3.8"/><sup>8</sup>But the tongue can no man tame; <i>it is</i> a restless evil, <i>it is</i> full of deadly poison. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jas.3.9" data-parsed="Jas_3_9_0_0" data-passage="Jas 3.9" id="Jas.3.9"/><sup>9</sup>Therewith bless we the Lord and Father;
and therewith curse we men, who are made after the likeness of God: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jas.3.10" data-parsed="Jas_3_10_0_0" data-passage="Jas 3.10" id="Jas.3.10"/><sup>10</sup>out of the same mouth cometh forth blessing and cursing. My brethren, these things ought not so to be. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jas.3.11" data-parsed="Jas_3_11_0_0" data-passage="Jas 3.11" id="Jas.3.11"/><sup>11</sup>Doth the fountain send forth from the same opening sweet <i>water</i> and bitter? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jas.3.12" data-parsed="Jas_3_12_0_0" data-passage="Jas 3.12" id="Jas.3.12"/><sup>12</sup>Can a fig tree, my brethren,
yield olives, or a vine figs? Neither <i>can</i> salt water yield sweet.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Jas.3.13" data-parsed="Jas_3_13_0_0" data-passage="Jas 3.13" id="Jas.3.13"/><sup>13</sup>Who is wise and understanding among you? let him show by his good life his works in meekness of wisdom. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jas.3.14" data-parsed="Jas_3_14_0_0" data-passage="Jas 3.14" id="Jas.3.14"/><sup>14</sup>But if ye have bitter jealousy and faction in your heart, glory not and lie not against the truth. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jas.3.15" data-parsed="Jas_3_15_0_0" data-passage="Jas 3.15" id="Jas.3.15"/><sup>15</sup>This wisdom is not <i>a wisdom</i> that cometh down from above, but is earthly,
sensual, devilish. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jas.3.16" data-parsed="Jas_3_16_0_0" data-passage="Jas 3.16" id="Jas.3.16"/><sup>16</sup>For where jealousy and faction are, there is confusion and every vile deed. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jas.3.17" data-parsed="Jas_3_17_0_0" data-passage="Jas 3.17" id="Jas.3.17"/><sup>17</sup>But the wisdom that is from above is first pure, then peaceable, gentle, easy to be entreated, full of mercy and good fruits, without variance, without hypocrisy. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jas.3.18" data-parsed="Jas_3_18_0_0" data-passage="Jas 3.18" id="Jas.3.18"/><sup>18</sup>And the fruit of righteousness is sown in peace for them that make peace.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>