<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>James 4</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">James 4</span></div><div data-next="Jas.5" data-prev="Jas.3" data-progress="97.41%" data-shorttitle="" id="Jas.4" title="James 4">
<h2 id="Jas.4-p0.1">4</h2>
<p id="Jas.4-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jas.4.1" data-parsed="Jas_4_1_0_0" data-passage="Jas 4.1" id="Jas.4.1"/><sup>1</sup>Whence <i>come</i> wars and whence <i>come</i> fightings among you?
<i>come they</i> not hence, <i>even</i> of your pleasures that war in your members? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jas.4.2" data-parsed="Jas_4_2_0_0" data-passage="Jas 4.2" id="Jas.4.2"/><sup>2</sup>Ye lust, and have not: ye kill, and covet, and cannot obtain:
ye fight and war; ye have not, because ye ask not. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jas.4.3" data-parsed="Jas_4_3_0_0" data-passage="Jas 4.3" id="Jas.4.3"/><sup>3</sup>Ye ask, and receive not, because ye ask amiss, that ye may spend <i>it</i> in your pleasures.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Jas.4.4" data-parsed="Jas_4_4_0_0" data-passage="Jas 4.4" id="Jas.4.4"/><sup>4</sup>Ye adulteresses, know ye not that the friendship of the world is enmity with God? Whosoever therefore would be a friend of the world maketh himself an enemy of God. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jas.4.5" data-parsed="Jas_4_5_0_0" data-passage="Jas 4.5" id="Jas.4.5"/><sup>5</sup>Or think ye that the span speaketh in vain? Doth the spirit which he made to dwell in us long unto envying? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jas.4.6" data-parsed="Jas_4_6_0_0" data-passage="Jas 4.6" id="Jas.4.6"/><sup>6</sup>But he giveth more grace. Wherefore <i>the span</i> saith, God resisteth the proud,
but giveth grace to the humble. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jas.4.7" data-parsed="Jas_4_7_0_0" data-passage="Jas 4.7" id="Jas.4.7"/><sup>7</sup>Be subject therefore unto God; but resist the devil, and he will flee from you. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jas.4.8" data-parsed="Jas_4_8_0_0" data-passage="Jas 4.8" id="Jas.4.8"/><sup>8</sup>Draw nigh to God, and he will draw nigh to you. Cleanse your hands, ye sinners; and purify your hearts, ye doubleminded. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jas.4.9" data-parsed="Jas_4_9_0_0" data-passage="Jas 4.9" id="Jas.4.9"/><sup>9</sup>Be afflicted, and mourn, and weep: let your laughter be turned to mourning, and your joy to heaviness. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jas.4.10" data-parsed="Jas_4_10_0_0" data-passage="Jas 4.10" id="Jas.4.10"/><sup>10</sup>Humble yourselves in the sight of the Lord, and he shall exalt you. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jas.4.11" data-parsed="Jas_4_11_0_0" data-passage="Jas 4.11" id="Jas.4.11"/><sup>11</sup>Speak not one against another, brethren. He that speaketh against a brother, or judgeth his brother, speaketh against the law, and judgeth the law: but if thou judgest the law, thou art not a doer of the law, but a judge. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jas.4.12" data-parsed="Jas_4_12_0_0" data-passage="Jas 4.12" id="Jas.4.12"/><sup>12</sup>One <i>only</i> is the lawgiver and judge, <i>even</i> he who is able to save and to destroy: but who art thou that judgest thy neighbor? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jas.4.13" data-parsed="Jas_4_13_0_0" data-passage="Jas 4.13" id="Jas.4.13"/><sup>13</sup>Come now,
ye that say, To-day or to-morrow we will go into this city, and spend a year there, and trade, and get gain: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jas.4.14" data-parsed="Jas_4_14_0_0" data-passage="Jas 4.14" id="Jas.4.14"/><sup>14</sup>whereas ye know not what shall be on the morrow. What is your life? For ye are a vapor, that appeareth for a little time, and then vanisheth away. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jas.4.15" data-parsed="Jas_4_15_0_0" data-passage="Jas 4.15" id="Jas.4.15"/><sup>15</sup>For that ye ought to say, If the Lord will, we shall both live, and do this or that. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jas.4.16" data-parsed="Jas_4_16_0_0" data-passage="Jas 4.16" id="Jas.4.16"/><sup>16</sup>But now ye glory in your vauntings: all such glorying is evil. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jas.4.17" data-parsed="Jas_4_17_0_0" data-passage="Jas 4.17" id="Jas.4.17"/><sup>17</sup>To him therefore that knoweth to do good, and doeth it not, to him it is sin.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>