<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Jeremiah 14</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Jeremiah 14</span></div><div data-next="Jer.15" data-prev="Jer.13" data-progress="62.78%" data-shorttitle="" id="Jer.14" title="Jeremiah 14">
<h2 id="Jer.14-p0.1">14</h2>
<p id="Jer.14-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.14.1" data-parsed="Jer_14_1_0_0" data-passage="Jer 14.1" id="Jer.14.1"/><sup>1</sup>The word of Jehovah that came to Jeremiah concerning the drought.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.14.2" data-parsed="Jer_14_2_0_0" data-passage="Jer 14.2" id="Jer.14.2"/><sup>2</sup>Judah mourneth, and the gates thereof languish, they sit in black upon the ground; and the cry of Jerusalem is gone up. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.14.3" data-parsed="Jer_14_3_0_0" data-passage="Jer 14.3" id="Jer.14.3"/><sup>3</sup>And their nobles send their little ones to the waters: they come to the cisterns, and find no water; they return with their vessels empty; they are put to shame and confounded, and cover their heads. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.14.4" data-parsed="Jer_14_4_0_0" data-passage="Jer 14.4" id="Jer.14.4"/><sup>4</sup>Because of the ground which is cracked, for that no rain hath been in the land, the plowmen are put to shame, they cover their heads. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.14.5" data-parsed="Jer_14_5_0_0" data-passage="Jer 14.5" id="Jer.14.5"/><sup>5</sup>Yea, the hind also in the field calveth,
and forsaketh <i>her young</i>, because there is no grass. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.14.6" data-parsed="Jer_14_6_0_0" data-passage="Jer 14.6" id="Jer.14.6"/><sup>6</sup>And the wild asses stand on the bare heights, they pant for air like jackals; their eyes fail, because there is no herbage. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.14.7" data-parsed="Jer_14_7_0_0" data-passage="Jer 14.7" id="Jer.14.7"/><sup>7</sup>Though our iniquities testify against us, work thou for thy name's sake, O Jehovah; for our backslidings are many;
we have sinned against thee. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.14.8" data-parsed="Jer_14_8_0_0" data-passage="Jer 14.8" id="Jer.14.8"/><sup>8</sup>O thou hope of Israel, the Saviour thereof in the time of trouble, why shouldest thou be as a sojourner in the land, and as a wayfaring man that turneth aside to tarry for a night? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.14.9" data-parsed="Jer_14_9_0_0" data-passage="Jer 14.9" id="Jer.14.9"/><sup>9</sup>Why shouldest thou be as a man affrighted, as a mighty man that cannot save? yet thou, O Jehovah, art in the midst of us, and we are called by thy name; leave us not. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.14.10" data-parsed="Jer_14_10_0_0" data-passage="Jer 14.10" id="Jer.14.10"/><sup>10</sup>Thus saith Jehovah unto this people, Even so have they loved to wander; they have not refrained their feet: therefore Jehovah doth not accept them; now will he remember their iniquity, and visit their sins. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.14.11" data-parsed="Jer_14_11_0_0" data-passage="Jer 14.11" id="Jer.14.11"/><sup>11</sup>And Jehovah said unto me, Pray not for this people for <i>their</i> good.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.14.12" data-parsed="Jer_14_12_0_0" data-passage="Jer 14.12" id="Jer.14.12"/><sup>12</sup>When they fast, I will not hear their cry; and when they offer burnt-offering and meal-offering, I will not accept them; but I will consume them by the sword, and by the famine, and by the pestilence. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.14.13" data-parsed="Jer_14_13_0_0" data-passage="Jer 14.13" id="Jer.14.13"/><sup>13</sup>Then said I, Ah, Lord Jehovah! behold, the prophets say unto them, Ye shall not see the sword, neither shall ye have famine; but I will give you assured peace in this place. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.14.14" data-parsed="Jer_14_14_0_0" data-passage="Jer 14.14" id="Jer.14.14"/><sup>14</sup>Then Jehovah said unto me, The prophets prophesy lies in my name; I sent them not, neither have I commanded them, neither spake I unto them: they prophesy unto you a lying vision, and divination, and a thing of nought, and the deceit of their own heart. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.14.15" data-parsed="Jer_14_15_0_0" data-passage="Jer 14.15" id="Jer.14.15"/><sup>15</sup>Therefore thus saith Jehovah concerning the prophets that prophesy in my name, and I sent them not, yet they say, Sword and famine shall not be in this land: By sword and famine shall those prophets be consumed. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.14.16" data-parsed="Jer_14_16_0_0" data-passage="Jer 14.16" id="Jer.14.16"/><sup>16</sup>And the people to whom they prophesy shall be cast out in the streets of Jerusalem because of the famine and the sword; and they shall have none to bury them-them, their wives, nor their sons, nor their daughters: for I will pour their wickedness upon them.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.14.17" data-parsed="Jer_14_17_0_0" data-passage="Jer 14.17" id="Jer.14.17"/><sup>17</sup>And thou shalt say this word unto them, Let mine eyes run down with tears night and day, and let them not cease; for the virgin daughter of my people is broken with a great breach, with a very grievous wound. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.14.18" data-parsed="Jer_14_18_0_0" data-passage="Jer 14.18" id="Jer.14.18"/><sup>18</sup>If I go forth into the field, then, behold, the slain with the sword! and if I enter into the city, then, behold, they that are sick with famine! for both the prophet and the priest go about in the land, and have no knowledge.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.14.19" data-parsed="Jer_14_19_0_0" data-passage="Jer 14.19" id="Jer.14.19"/><sup>19</sup>Hast thou utterly rejected Judah? hath thy soul loathed Zion? why hast thou smitten us, and there is no healing for us? We looked for peace, but no good came; and for a time of healing, and, behold, dismay! 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.14.20" data-parsed="Jer_14_20_0_0" data-passage="Jer 14.20" id="Jer.14.20"/><sup>20</sup>We acknowledge, O Jehovah, our wickedness, and the iniquity of our fathers; for we have sinned against thee. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.14.21" data-parsed="Jer_14_21_0_0" data-passage="Jer 14.21" id="Jer.14.21"/><sup>21</sup>Do not abhor <i>us</i>, for thy name's sake; do not disgrace the throne of thy glory: remember, break not thy covenant with us. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.14.22" data-parsed="Jer_14_22_0_0" data-passage="Jer 14.22" id="Jer.14.22"/><sup>22</sup>Are there any among the vanities of the nations that can cause rain? or can the heavens give showers? art not thou he, O Jehovah our God? therefore we will wait for thee; for thou hast made all these things.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>