<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Jeremiah 16</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Jeremiah 16</span></div><div data-next="Jer.17" data-prev="Jer.15" data-progress="62.96%" data-shorttitle="" id="Jer.16" title="Jeremiah 16">
<h2 id="Jer.16-p0.1">16</h2>
<p id="Jer.16-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.16.1" data-parsed="Jer_16_1_0_0" data-passage="Jer 16.1" id="Jer.16.1"/><sup>1</sup>The word of Jehovah came also unto me, saying, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.16.2" data-parsed="Jer_16_2_0_0" data-passage="Jer 16.2" id="Jer.16.2"/><sup>2</sup>Thou shalt not take thee a wife, neither shalt thou have sons or daughters, in this place.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.16.3" data-parsed="Jer_16_3_0_0" data-passage="Jer 16.3" id="Jer.16.3"/><sup>3</sup>For thus saith Jehovah concerning the sons and concerning the daughters that are born in this place, and concerning their mothers that bare them, and concerning their fathers that begat them in this land: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.16.4" data-parsed="Jer_16_4_0_0" data-passage="Jer 16.4" id="Jer.16.4"/><sup>4</sup>They shall die grievous deaths: they shall not be lamented, neither shall they be buried;
they shall be as dung upon the face of the ground; and they shall be consumed by the sword, and by famine; and their dead bodies shall be food for the birds of the heavens, and for the beasts of the earth. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.16.5" data-parsed="Jer_16_5_0_0" data-passage="Jer 16.5" id="Jer.16.5"/><sup>5</sup>For thus saith Jehovah, Enter not into the house of mourning, neither go to lament, neither bemoan them; for I have taken away my peace from this people, saith Jehovah,
even lovingkindness and tender mercies. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.16.6" data-parsed="Jer_16_6_0_0" data-passage="Jer 16.6" id="Jer.16.6"/><sup>6</sup>Both great and small shall die in this land; they shall not be buried, neither shall men lament for them,
nor cut themselves, nor make themselves bald for them; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.16.7" data-parsed="Jer_16_7_0_0" data-passage="Jer 16.7" id="Jer.16.7"/><sup>7</sup>neither shall men break <i>bread</i> for them in mourning, to comfort them for the dead;
neither shall men give them the cup of consolation to drink for their father or for their mother. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.16.8" data-parsed="Jer_16_8_0_0" data-passage="Jer 16.8" id="Jer.16.8"/><sup>8</sup>And thou shalt not go into the house of feasting to sit with them, to eat and to drink. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.16.9" data-parsed="Jer_16_9_0_0" data-passage="Jer 16.9" id="Jer.16.9"/><sup>9</sup>For thus saith Jehovah of hosts, the God of Israel: Behold, I will cause to cease out of this place, before your eyes and in your days, the voice of mirth and the voice of gladness, the voice of the bridegroom and the voice of the bride. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.16.10" data-parsed="Jer_16_10_0_0" data-passage="Jer 16.10" id="Jer.16.10"/><sup>10</sup>And it shall come to pass, when thou shalt show this people all these words, and they shall say unto thee, Wherefore hath Jehovah pronounced all this great evil against us?
or what is our iniquity? or what is our sin that we have committed against Jehovah our God? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.16.11" data-parsed="Jer_16_11_0_0" data-passage="Jer 16.11" id="Jer.16.11"/><sup>11</sup>Then shalt thou say unto them, Because your fathers have forsaken me, saith Jehovah, and have walked after other gods, and have served them, and have worshipped them, and have forsaken me, and have not kept my law; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.16.12" data-parsed="Jer_16_12_0_0" data-passage="Jer 16.12" id="Jer.16.12"/><sup>12</sup>and ye have done evil more than your fathers; for, behold,
ye walk every one after the stubbornness of his evil heart, so that ye hearken not unto me: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.16.13" data-parsed="Jer_16_13_0_0" data-passage="Jer 16.13" id="Jer.16.13"/><sup>13</sup>therefore will I cast you forth out of this land into the land that ye have not known, neither ye nor your fathers; and there shall ye serve other gods day and night; for I will show you no favor.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.16.14" data-parsed="Jer_16_14_0_0" data-passage="Jer 16.14" id="Jer.16.14"/><sup>14</sup>Therefore, behold, the days come, saith Jehovah, that it shall no more be said, As Jehovah liveth, that brought up the children of Israel out of the land of Egypt; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.16.15" data-parsed="Jer_16_15_0_0" data-passage="Jer 16.15" id="Jer.16.15"/><sup>15</sup>but, As Jehovah liveth, that brought up the children of Israel from the land of the north, and from all the countries whither he had driven them. And I will bring them again into their land that I gave unto their fathers. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.16.16" data-parsed="Jer_16_16_0_0" data-passage="Jer 16.16" id="Jer.16.16"/><sup>16</sup>Behold, I will send for many fishers, saith Jehovah, and they shall fish them up; and afterward I will send for many hunters, and they shall hunt them from every mountain, and from every hill, and out of the clefts of the rocks. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.16.17" data-parsed="Jer_16_17_0_0" data-passage="Jer 16.17" id="Jer.16.17"/><sup>17</sup>For mine eyes are upon all their ways; they are not hid from my face, neither is their iniquity concealed from mine eyes.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.16.18" data-parsed="Jer_16_18_0_0" data-passage="Jer 16.18" id="Jer.16.18"/><sup>18</sup>And first I will recompense their iniquity and their sin double,
because they have polluted my land with the carcasses of their detestable things, and have filled mine inheritance with their abominations. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.16.19" data-parsed="Jer_16_19_0_0" data-passage="Jer 16.19" id="Jer.16.19"/><sup>19</sup>O Jehovah, my strength, and my stronghold, and my refuge in the day of affliction, unto thee shall the nations come from the ends of the earth, and shall say, Our fathers have inherited nought but lies, <i>even</i> vanity and things wherein there is no profit. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.16.20" data-parsed="Jer_16_20_0_0" data-passage="Jer 16.20" id="Jer.16.20"/><sup>20</sup>Shall a man make unto himself gods, which yet are no gods? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.16.21" data-parsed="Jer_16_21_0_0" data-passage="Jer 16.21" id="Jer.16.21"/><sup>21</sup>Therefore, behold, I will cause them to know, this once will I cause them to know my hand and my might; and they shall know that my name is Jehovah.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>