<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Jeremiah 10</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Jeremiah 10</span></div><div data-next="Jer.11" data-prev="Jer.9" data-progress="62.45%" data-shorttitle="" id="Jer.10" title="Jeremiah 10">
<h2 id="Jer.10-p0.1">10</h2>
<p id="Jer.10-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.10.1" data-parsed="Jer_10_1_0_0" data-passage="Jer 10.1" id="Jer.10.1"/><sup>1</sup>Hear ye the word which Jehovah speaketh unto you, O house of Israel: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.10.2" data-parsed="Jer_10_2_0_0" data-passage="Jer 10.2" id="Jer.10.2"/><sup>2</sup>thus saith Jehovah, Learn not the way of the nations, and be not dismayed at the signs of heaven; for the nations are dismayed at them.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.10.3" data-parsed="Jer_10_3_0_0" data-passage="Jer 10.3" id="Jer.10.3"/><sup>3</sup>For the customs of the peoples are vanity; for one cutteth a tree out of the forest, the work of the hands of the workman with the axe. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.10.4" data-parsed="Jer_10_4_0_0" data-passage="Jer 10.4" id="Jer.10.4"/><sup>4</sup>They deck it with silver and with gold; they fasten it with nails and with hammers,
that it move not. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.10.5" data-parsed="Jer_10_5_0_0" data-passage="Jer 10.5" id="Jer.10.5"/><sup>5</sup>They are like a palm-tree, of turned work, and speak not: they must needs be borne, because they cannot go. Be not afraid of them;
for they cannot do evil, neither is it in them to do good. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.10.6" data-parsed="Jer_10_6_0_0" data-passage="Jer 10.6" id="Jer.10.6"/><sup>6</sup>There is none like unto thee, O Jehovah; thou art great, and thy name is great in might.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.10.7" data-parsed="Jer_10_7_0_0" data-passage="Jer 10.7" id="Jer.10.7"/><sup>7</sup>Who should not fear thee, O King of the nations? for to thee doth it appertain; forasmuch as among all the wise men of the nations, and in all their royal estate, there is none like unto thee. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.10.8" data-parsed="Jer_10_8_0_0" data-passage="Jer 10.8" id="Jer.10.8"/><sup>8</sup>But they are together brutish and foolish: the instruction of idols! it is but a stock. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.10.9" data-parsed="Jer_10_9_0_0" data-passage="Jer 10.9" id="Jer.10.9"/><sup>9</sup>There is silver beaten into plates, which is brought from Tarshish, and gold from Uphaz, the work of the artificer and of the hands of the goldsmith; blue and purple for their clothing; they are all the work of skilful men. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.10.10" data-parsed="Jer_10_10_0_0" data-passage="Jer 10.10" id="Jer.10.10"/><sup>10</sup>But Jehovah is the true God; he is the living God, and an everlasting King: at his wrath the earth trembleth, and the nations are not able to abide his indignation. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.10.11" data-parsed="Jer_10_11_0_0" data-passage="Jer 10.11" id="Jer.10.11"/><sup>11</sup>Thus shall ye say unto them, The gods that have not made the heavens and the earth, these shall perish from the earth, and from under the heavens. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.10.12" data-parsed="Jer_10_12_0_0" data-passage="Jer 10.12" id="Jer.10.12"/><sup>12</sup>He hath made the earth by his power, he hath established the world by his wisdom, and by his understanding hath he stretched out the heavens: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.10.13" data-parsed="Jer_10_13_0_0" data-passage="Jer 10.13" id="Jer.10.13"/><sup>13</sup>when he uttereth his voice, there is a tumult of waters in the heavens, and he causeth the vapors to ascend from the ends of the earth; he maketh lightnings for the rain, and bringeth forth the wind out of his treasuries. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.10.14" data-parsed="Jer_10_14_0_0" data-passage="Jer 10.14" id="Jer.10.14"/><sup>14</sup>Every man is become brutish <i>and is</i> without knowledge; every goldsmith is put to shame by his graven image; for his molten image is falsehood, and there is no breath in them. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.10.15" data-parsed="Jer_10_15_0_0" data-passage="Jer 10.15" id="Jer.10.15"/><sup>15</sup>They are vanity, a work of delusion: in the time of their visitation they shall perish. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.10.16" data-parsed="Jer_10_16_0_0" data-passage="Jer 10.16" id="Jer.10.16"/><sup>16</sup>The portion of Jacob is not like these; for he is the former of all things; and Israel is the tribe of his inheritance: Jehovah of hosts is his name. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.10.17" data-parsed="Jer_10_17_0_0" data-passage="Jer 10.17" id="Jer.10.17"/><sup>17</sup>Gather up thy wares out of the land, O thou that abidest in the siege. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.10.18" data-parsed="Jer_10_18_0_0" data-passage="Jer 10.18" id="Jer.10.18"/><sup>18</sup>For thus saith Jehovah, Behold, I will sling out the inhabitants of the land at this time, and will distress them, that they may feel <i>it</i>. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.10.19" data-parsed="Jer_10_19_0_0" data-passage="Jer 10.19" id="Jer.10.19"/><sup>19</sup>Woe is me because of my hurt! my wound is grievous:
but I said, Truly this is <i>my</i> grief, and I must bear it. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.10.20" data-parsed="Jer_10_20_0_0" data-passage="Jer 10.20" id="Jer.10.20"/><sup>20</sup>My tent is destroyed, and all my cords are broken: my children are gone forth from me, and they are not: there is none to spread my tent any more, and to set up my curtains. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.10.21" data-parsed="Jer_10_21_0_0" data-passage="Jer 10.21" id="Jer.10.21"/><sup>21</sup>For the shepherds are become brutish, and have not inquired of Jehovah: therefore they have not prospered, and all their flocks are scattered. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.10.22" data-parsed="Jer_10_22_0_0" data-passage="Jer 10.22" id="Jer.10.22"/><sup>22</sup>The voice of tidings, behold, it cometh, and a great commotion out of the north country, to make the cities of Judah a desolation,
a dwelling-place of jackals. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.10.23" data-parsed="Jer_10_23_0_0" data-passage="Jer 10.23" id="Jer.10.23"/><sup>23</sup>O Jehovah, I know that the way of man is not in himself: it is not in man that walketh to direct his steps. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.10.24" data-parsed="Jer_10_24_0_0" data-passage="Jer 10.24" id="Jer.10.24"/><sup>24</sup>O Jehovah, correct me, but in measure: not in thine anger, lest thou bring me to nothing. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.10.25" data-parsed="Jer_10_25_0_0" data-passage="Jer 10.25" id="Jer.10.25"/><sup>25</sup>Pour out thy wrath upon the nations that know thee not, and upon the families that call not on thy name: for they have devoured Jacob,
yea, they have devoured him and consumed him, and have laid waste his habitation.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>