<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Jeremiah 12</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Jeremiah 12</span></div><div data-next="Jer.13" data-prev="Jer.11" data-progress="62.62%" data-shorttitle="" id="Jer.12" title="Jeremiah 12">
<h2 id="Jer.12-p0.1">12</h2>
<p id="Jer.12-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.12.1" data-parsed="Jer_12_1_0_0" data-passage="Jer 12.1" id="Jer.12.1"/><sup>1</sup>Righteous art thou, O Jehovah, when I contend with thee; yet would I reason the cause with thee: wherefore doth the way of the wicked prosper?
wherefore are all they at ease that deal very treacherously? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.12.2" data-parsed="Jer_12_2_0_0" data-passage="Jer 12.2" id="Jer.12.2"/><sup>2</sup>Thou hast planted them, yea, they have taken root; they grow, yea, they bring forth fruit: thou art near in their mouth, and far from their heart. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.12.3" data-parsed="Jer_12_3_0_0" data-passage="Jer 12.3" id="Jer.12.3"/><sup>3</sup>But thou,
O Jehovah, knowest me; thou seest me, and triest my heart toward thee: pull them out like sheep for the slaughter, and prepare them for the day of slaughter. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.12.4" data-parsed="Jer_12_4_0_0" data-passage="Jer 12.4" id="Jer.12.4"/><sup>4</sup>How long shall the land mourn, and the herbs of the whole country wither? for the wickedness of them that dwell therein, the beasts are consumed, and the birds; because they said, He shall not see our latter end.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.12.5" data-parsed="Jer_12_5_0_0" data-passage="Jer 12.5" id="Jer.12.5"/><sup>5</sup>If thou hast run with the footmen, and they have wearied thee, then how canst thou contend with horses? and though in a land of peace thou art secure, yet how wilt thou do in the pride of the Jordan? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.12.6" data-parsed="Jer_12_6_0_0" data-passage="Jer 12.6" id="Jer.12.6"/><sup>6</sup>For even thy brethren, and the house of thy father, even they have dealt treacherously with thee; even they have cried aloud after thee: believe them not, though they speak fair words unto thee. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.12.7" data-parsed="Jer_12_7_0_0" data-passage="Jer 12.7" id="Jer.12.7"/><sup>7</sup>I have forsaken my house, I have cast off my heritage; I have given the dearly beloved of my soul into the hand of her enemies. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.12.8" data-parsed="Jer_12_8_0_0" data-passage="Jer 12.8" id="Jer.12.8"/><sup>8</sup>My heritage is become unto me as a lion in the forest: she hath uttered her voice against me; therefore I have hated her. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.12.9" data-parsed="Jer_12_9_0_0" data-passage="Jer 12.9" id="Jer.12.9"/><sup>9</sup>Is my heritage unto me as a speckled bird of prey? are the birds of prey against her round about? go ye, assemble all the beasts of the field, bring them to devour. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.12.10" data-parsed="Jer_12_10_0_0" data-passage="Jer 12.10" id="Jer.12.10"/><sup>10</sup>Many shepherds have destroyed my vineyard, they have trodden my portion under foot, they have made my pleasant portion a desolate wilderness.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.12.11" data-parsed="Jer_12_11_0_0" data-passage="Jer 12.11" id="Jer.12.11"/><sup>11</sup>They have made it a desolation; it mourneth unto me, being desolate;
the whole land is made desolate, because no man layeth it to heart.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.12.12" data-parsed="Jer_12_12_0_0" data-passage="Jer 12.12" id="Jer.12.12"/><sup>12</sup>Destroyers are come upon all the bare heights in the wilderness; for the sword of Jehovah devoureth from the one end of the land even to the other end of the land: no flesh hath peace. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.12.13" data-parsed="Jer_12_13_0_0" data-passage="Jer 12.13" id="Jer.12.13"/><sup>13</sup>They have sown wheat, and have reaped thorns; they have put themselves to pain, and profit nothing: and ye shall be ashamed of your fruits, because of the fierce anger of Jehovah.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.12.14" data-parsed="Jer_12_14_0_0" data-passage="Jer 12.14" id="Jer.12.14"/><sup>14</sup>Thus saith Jehovah against all mine evil neighbors, that touch the inheritance which I have caused my people Israel to inherit: behold, I will pluck them up from off their land, and will pluck up the house of Judah from among them. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.12.15" data-parsed="Jer_12_15_0_0" data-passage="Jer 12.15" id="Jer.12.15"/><sup>15</sup>And it shall come to pass, after that I have plucked them up, I will return and have compassion on them; and I will bring them again,
every man to his heritage, and every man to his land. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.12.16" data-parsed="Jer_12_16_0_0" data-passage="Jer 12.16" id="Jer.12.16"/><sup>16</sup>And it shall come to pass, if they will diligently learn the ways of my people, to swear by my name, As Jehovah liveth; even as they taught my people to swear by Baal; then shall they be built up in the midst of my people. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.12.17" data-parsed="Jer_12_17_0_0" data-passage="Jer 12.17" id="Jer.12.17"/><sup>17</sup>But if they will not hear, then will I pluck up that nation, plucking up and destroying it, saith Jehovah.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>