<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Jeremiah 23</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Jeremiah 23</span></div><div data-next="Jer.24" data-prev="Jer.22" data-progress="63.54%" data-shorttitle="" id="Jer.23" title="Jeremiah 23">
<h2 id="Jer.23-p0.1">23</h2>
<p id="Jer.23-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.23.1" data-parsed="Jer_23_1_0_0" data-passage="Jer 23.1" id="Jer.23.1"/><sup>1</sup>Woe unto the shepherds that destroy and scatter the sheep of my pasture! saith Jehovah. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.23.2" data-parsed="Jer_23_2_0_0" data-passage="Jer 23.2" id="Jer.23.2"/><sup>2</sup>Therefore thus saith Jehovah, the God of Israel,
against the shepherds that feed my people: Ye have scattered my flock, and driven them away, and have not visited them; behold, I will visit upon you the evil of your doings, saith Jehovah. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.23.3" data-parsed="Jer_23_3_0_0" data-passage="Jer 23.3" id="Jer.23.3"/><sup>3</sup>And I will gather the remnant of my flock out of all the countries whither I have driven them, and will bring them again to their folds; and they shall be fruitful and multiply. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.23.4" data-parsed="Jer_23_4_0_0" data-passage="Jer 23.4" id="Jer.23.4"/><sup>4</sup>And I will set up shepherds over them, who shall feed them; and they shall fear no more, nor be dismayed, neither shall any be lacking, saith Jehovah.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.23.5" data-parsed="Jer_23_5_0_0" data-passage="Jer 23.5" id="Jer.23.5"/><sup>5</sup>Behold, the days come, saith Jehovah, that I will raise unto David a righteous Branch, and he shall reign as king and deal wisely, and shall execute justice and righteousness in the land. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.23.6" data-parsed="Jer_23_6_0_0" data-passage="Jer 23.6" id="Jer.23.6"/><sup>6</sup>In his days Judah shall be saved, and Israel shall dwell safely; and this is his name whereby he shall be called: Jehovah our righteousness. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.23.7" data-parsed="Jer_23_7_0_0" data-passage="Jer 23.7" id="Jer.23.7"/><sup>7</sup>Therefore, behold, the days come, saith Jehovah, that they shall no more say, As Jehovah liveth, who brought up the children of Israel out of the land of Egypt; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.23.8" data-parsed="Jer_23_8_0_0" data-passage="Jer 23.8" id="Jer.23.8"/><sup>8</sup>but, As Jehovah liveth, who brought up and who led the seed of the house of Israel out of the north country, and from all the countries whither I had driven them. And they shall dwell in their own land. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.23.9" data-parsed="Jer_23_9_0_0" data-passage="Jer 23.9" id="Jer.23.9"/><sup>9</sup>Concerning the prophets.
My heart within me is broken, all my bones shake; I am like a drunken man,
and like a man whom wine hath overcome, because of Jehovah, and because of his holy words. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.23.10" data-parsed="Jer_23_10_0_0" data-passage="Jer 23.10" id="Jer.23.10"/><sup>10</sup>For the land is full of adulterers; for because of swearing the land mourneth; the pastures of the wilderness are dried up. And their course is evil, and their might is not right; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.23.11" data-parsed="Jer_23_11_0_0" data-passage="Jer 23.11" id="Jer.23.11"/><sup>11</sup>for both prophet and priest are profane; yea, in my house have I found their wickedness, saith Jehovah. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.23.12" data-parsed="Jer_23_12_0_0" data-passage="Jer 23.12" id="Jer.23.12"/><sup>12</sup>Wherefore their way shall be unto them as slippery places in the darkness: they shall be driven on, and fall therein; for I will bring evil upon them, even the year of their visitation, saith Jehovah. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.23.13" data-parsed="Jer_23_13_0_0" data-passage="Jer 23.13" id="Jer.23.13"/><sup>13</sup>And I have seen folly in the prophets of Samaria; they prophesied by Baal, and caused my people Israel to err. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.23.14" data-parsed="Jer_23_14_0_0" data-passage="Jer 23.14" id="Jer.23.14"/><sup>14</sup>In the prophets of Jerusalem also I have seen a horrible thing: they commit adultery, and walk in lies; and they strengthen the hands of evil-doers, so that none doth return from his wickedness: they are all of them become unto me as Sodom, and the inhabitants thereof as Gomorrah. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.23.15" data-parsed="Jer_23_15_0_0" data-passage="Jer 23.15" id="Jer.23.15"/><sup>15</sup>Therefore thus saith Jehovah of hosts concerning the prophets: Behold, I will feed them with wormwood, and make them drink the water of gall; for from the prophets of Jerusalem is ungodliness gone forth into all the land. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.23.16" data-parsed="Jer_23_16_0_0" data-passage="Jer 23.16" id="Jer.23.16"/><sup>16</sup>Thus saith Jehovah of hosts, Hearken not unto the words of the prophets that prophesy unto you: they teach you vanity; they speak a vision of their own heart, and not out of the mouth of Jehovah.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.23.17" data-parsed="Jer_23_17_0_0" data-passage="Jer 23.17" id="Jer.23.17"/><sup>17</sup>They say continually unto them that despise me, Jehovah hath said, Ye shall have peace; and unto every one that walketh in the stubbornness of his own heart they say, No evil shall come upon you. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.23.18" data-parsed="Jer_23_18_0_0" data-passage="Jer 23.18" id="Jer.23.18"/><sup>18</sup>For who hath stood in the council of Jehovah, that he should perceive and hear his word? who hath marked my word, and heard it? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.23.19" data-parsed="Jer_23_19_0_0" data-passage="Jer 23.19" id="Jer.23.19"/><sup>19</sup>Behold, the tempest of Jehovah, <i>even his</i> wrath, is gone forth, yea, a whirling tempest: it shall burst upon the head of the wicked. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.23.20" data-parsed="Jer_23_20_0_0" data-passage="Jer 23.20" id="Jer.23.20"/><sup>20</sup>The anger of Jehovah shall not return, until he have executed, and till he have performed the intents of his heart: in the latter days ye shall understand it perfectly. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.23.21" data-parsed="Jer_23_21_0_0" data-passage="Jer 23.21" id="Jer.23.21"/><sup>21</sup>I sent not these prophets, yet they ran: I spake not unto them, yet they prophesied. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.23.22" data-parsed="Jer_23_22_0_0" data-passage="Jer 23.22" id="Jer.23.22"/><sup>22</sup>But if they had stood in my council, then had they caused my people to hear my words, and had turned them from their evil way, and from the evil of their doings. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.23.23" data-parsed="Jer_23_23_0_0" data-passage="Jer 23.23" id="Jer.23.23"/><sup>23</sup>Am I a God at hand, saith Jehovah, and not a God afar off?

<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.23.24" data-parsed="Jer_23_24_0_0" data-passage="Jer 23.24" id="Jer.23.24"/><sup>24</sup>Can any hide himself in secret places so that I shall not see him?
saith Jehovah. Do not I fill heaven and earth? saith Jehovah. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.23.25" data-parsed="Jer_23_25_0_0" data-passage="Jer 23.25" id="Jer.23.25"/><sup>25</sup>I have heard what the prophets have said, that prophesy lies in my name, saying, I have dreamed, I have dreamed. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.23.26" data-parsed="Jer_23_26_0_0" data-passage="Jer 23.26" id="Jer.23.26"/><sup>26</sup>How long shall this be in the heart of the prophets that prophesy lies, even the prophets of the deceit of their own heart? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.23.27" data-parsed="Jer_23_27_0_0" data-passage="Jer 23.27" id="Jer.23.27"/><sup>27</sup>that think to cause my people to forget my name by their dreams which they tell every man to his neighbor, as their fathers forgat my name for Baal. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.23.28" data-parsed="Jer_23_28_0_0" data-passage="Jer 23.28" id="Jer.23.28"/><sup>28</sup>The prophet that hath a dream, let him tell a dream; and he that hath my word, let him speak my word faithfully. What is the straw to the wheat? saith Jehovah. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.23.29" data-parsed="Jer_23_29_0_0" data-passage="Jer 23.29" id="Jer.23.29"/><sup>29</sup>Is not my word like fire? saith Jehovah; and like a hammer that breaketh the rock in pieces? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.23.30" data-parsed="Jer_23_30_0_0" data-passage="Jer 23.30" id="Jer.23.30"/><sup>30</sup>Therefore, behold, I am against the prophets, saith Jehovah, that steal my words every one from his neighbor. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.23.31" data-parsed="Jer_23_31_0_0" data-passage="Jer 23.31" id="Jer.23.31"/><sup>31</sup>Behold, I am against the prophets, saith Jehovah, that use their tongues, and say, He saith. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.23.32" data-parsed="Jer_23_32_0_0" data-passage="Jer 23.32" id="Jer.23.32"/><sup>32</sup>Behold, I am against them that prophesy lying dreams, saith Jehovah, and do tell them, and cause my people to err by their lies, and by their vain boasting: yet I sent them not, nor commanded them; neither do they profit this people at all, saith Jehovah.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.23.33" data-parsed="Jer_23_33_0_0" data-passage="Jer 23.33" id="Jer.23.33"/><sup>33</sup>And when this people, or the prophet, or a priest, shall ask thee,
saying, What is the burden of Jehovah? then shalt thou say unto them, What burden! I will cast you off, saith Jehovah. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.23.34" data-parsed="Jer_23_34_0_0" data-passage="Jer 23.34" id="Jer.23.34"/><sup>34</sup>And as for the prophet, and the priest, and the people, that shall say, The burden of Jehovah, I will even punish that man and his house. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.23.35" data-parsed="Jer_23_35_0_0" data-passage="Jer 23.35" id="Jer.23.35"/><sup>35</sup>Thus shall ye say every one to his neighbor, and every one to his brother, What hath Jehovah answered? and, What hath Jehovah spoken? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.23.36" data-parsed="Jer_23_36_0_0" data-passage="Jer 23.36" id="Jer.23.36"/><sup>36</sup>And the burden of Jehovah shall ye mention no more: for every man's own word shall be his burden; for ye have perverted the words of the living God, of Jehovah of hosts our God. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.23.37" data-parsed="Jer_23_37_0_0" data-passage="Jer 23.37" id="Jer.23.37"/><sup>37</sup>Thus shalt thou say to the prophet, What hath Jehovah answered thee? and, What hath Jehovah spoken? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.23.38" data-parsed="Jer_23_38_0_0" data-passage="Jer 23.38" id="Jer.23.38"/><sup>38</sup>But if ye say, The burden of Jehovah; therefore thus saith Jehovah: Because ye say this word, The burden of Jehovah, and I have sent unto you, saying, Ye shall not say, The burden of Jehovah; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.23.39" data-parsed="Jer_23_39_0_0" data-passage="Jer 23.39" id="Jer.23.39"/><sup>39</sup>therefore,
behold, I will utterly forget you, and I will cast you off, and the city that I gave unto you and to your fathers, away from my presence: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.23.40" data-parsed="Jer_23_40_0_0" data-passage="Jer 23.40" id="Jer.23.40"/><sup>40</sup>and I will bring an everlasting reproach upon you, and a perpetual shame, which shall not be forgotten.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>