<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Jeremiah 28</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Jeremiah 28</span></div><div data-next="Jer.29" data-prev="Jer.27" data-progress="64.06%" data-shorttitle="" id="Jer.28" title="Jeremiah 28">
<h2 id="Jer.28-p0.1">28</h2>
<p id="Jer.28-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.28.1" data-parsed="Jer_28_1_0_0" data-passage="Jer 28.1" id="Jer.28.1"/><sup>1</sup>And it came to pass the same year, in the beginning of the reign of Zedekiah king of Judah, in the fourth year, in the fifth month, that Hananiah the son of Azzur, the prophet, who was of Gibeon, spake unto me in the house of Jehovah, in the presence of the priests and of all the people,
saying, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.28.2" data-parsed="Jer_28_2_0_0" data-passage="Jer 28.2" id="Jer.28.2"/><sup>2</sup>Thus speaketh Jehovah of hosts, the God of Israel, saying, I have broken the yoke of the king of Babylon. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.28.3" data-parsed="Jer_28_3_0_0" data-passage="Jer 28.3" id="Jer.28.3"/><sup>3</sup>Within two full years will I bring again into this place all the vessels of Jehovah's house, that Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon took away from this place, and carried to Babylon: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.28.4" data-parsed="Jer_28_4_0_0" data-passage="Jer 28.4" id="Jer.28.4"/><sup>4</sup>and I will bring again to this place Jeconiah the son of Jehoiakim, king of Judah, with all the captives of Judah, that went to Babylon, saith Jehovah; for I will break the yoke of the king of Babylon.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.28.5" data-parsed="Jer_28_5_0_0" data-passage="Jer 28.5" id="Jer.28.5"/><sup>5</sup>Then the prophet Jeremiah said unto the prophet Hananiah in the presence of the priests, and in the presence of all the people that stood in the house of Jehovah, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.28.6" data-parsed="Jer_28_6_0_0" data-passage="Jer 28.6" id="Jer.28.6"/><sup>6</sup>even the prophet Jeremiah said, Amen: Jehovah do so; Jehovah perform thy words which thou hast prophesied, to bring again the vessels of Jehovah's house, and all them of the captivity, from Babylon unto this place.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.28.7" data-parsed="Jer_28_7_0_0" data-passage="Jer 28.7" id="Jer.28.7"/><sup>7</sup>Nevertheless hear thou now this word that I speak in thine ears, and in the ears of all the people: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.28.8" data-parsed="Jer_28_8_0_0" data-passage="Jer 28.8" id="Jer.28.8"/><sup>8</sup>The prophets that have been before me and before thee of old prophesied against many countries, and against great kingdoms, of war, and of evil, and of pestilence. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.28.9" data-parsed="Jer_28_9_0_0" data-passage="Jer 28.9" id="Jer.28.9"/><sup>9</sup>The prophet that prophesieth of peace, when the word of the prophet shall come to pass, then shall the prophet be known, that Jehovah hath truly sent him. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.28.10" data-parsed="Jer_28_10_0_0" data-passage="Jer 28.10" id="Jer.28.10"/><sup>10</sup>Then Hananiah the prophet took the bar from off the prophet Jeremiah's neck, and brake it. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.28.11" data-parsed="Jer_28_11_0_0" data-passage="Jer 28.11" id="Jer.28.11"/><sup>11</sup>And Hananiah spake in the presence of all the people, saying,
Thus saith Jehovah: Even so will I break the yoke of Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon within two full years from off the neck of all the nations. And the prophet Jeremiah went his way. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.28.12" data-parsed="Jer_28_12_0_0" data-passage="Jer 28.12" id="Jer.28.12"/><sup>12</sup>Then the word of Jehovah came unto Jeremiah, after that Hananiah the prophet had broken the bar from off the neck of the prophet Jeremiah, saying, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.28.13" data-parsed="Jer_28_13_0_0" data-passage="Jer 28.13" id="Jer.28.13"/><sup>13</sup>Go, and tell Hananiah, saying,
Thus saith Jehovah: Thou hast broken the bars of wood; but thou hast made in their stead bars of iron. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.28.14" data-parsed="Jer_28_14_0_0" data-passage="Jer 28.14" id="Jer.28.14"/><sup>14</sup>For thus saith Jehovah of hosts, the God of Israel: I have put a yoke of iron upon the neck of all these nations, that they may served Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon; and they shall serve him: and I have given him the beasts of the field also. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.28.15" data-parsed="Jer_28_15_0_0" data-passage="Jer 28.15" id="Jer.28.15"/><sup>15</sup>Then said the prophet Jeremiah unto Hananiah the prophet, Hear now, Hananiah: Jehovah hath not sent thee; but thou makest this people to trust in a lie. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.28.16" data-parsed="Jer_28_16_0_0" data-passage="Jer 28.16" id="Jer.28.16"/><sup>16</sup>Therefore thus saith Jehovah, Behold, I will send thee away from off the face of the earth:
this year thou shalt die, because thou hast spoken rebellion against Jehovah.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.28.17" data-parsed="Jer_28_17_0_0" data-passage="Jer 28.17" id="Jer.28.17"/><sup>17</sup>So Hananiah the prophet died the same year in the seventh month.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>