<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Jeremiah 26</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Jeremiah 26</span></div><div data-next="Jer.27" data-prev="Jer.25" data-progress="63.87%" data-shorttitle="" id="Jer.26" title="Jeremiah 26">
<h2 id="Jer.26-p0.1">26</h2>
<p id="Jer.26-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.26.1" data-parsed="Jer_26_1_0_0" data-passage="Jer 26.1" id="Jer.26.1"/><sup>1</sup>In the beginning of the reign of Jehoiakim the son of Josiah, king of Judah, came this word from Jehovah, saying, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.26.2" data-parsed="Jer_26_2_0_0" data-passage="Jer 26.2" id="Jer.26.2"/><sup>2</sup>Thus saith Jehovah: Stand in the court of Jehovah's house, and speak unto all the cities of Judah,
which come to worship in Jehovah's house, all the words that I command thee to speak unto them; diminish not a word. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.26.3" data-parsed="Jer_26_3_0_0" data-passage="Jer 26.3" id="Jer.26.3"/><sup>3</sup>It may be they will hearken,
and turn every man from his evil way; that I may repent me of the evil which I purpose to do unto them because of the evil of their doings. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.26.4" data-parsed="Jer_26_4_0_0" data-passage="Jer 26.4" id="Jer.26.4"/><sup>4</sup>And thou shalt say unto them, Thus saith Jehovah: If ye will not hearken to me, to walk in my law, which I have set before you, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.26.5" data-parsed="Jer_26_5_0_0" data-passage="Jer 26.5" id="Jer.26.5"/><sup>5</sup>to hearken to the words of my servants the prophets, whom I send unto you, even rising up early and sending them, but ye have not hearkened; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.26.6" data-parsed="Jer_26_6_0_0" data-passage="Jer 26.6" id="Jer.26.6"/><sup>6</sup>then will I make this house like Shiloh, and will make this city a curse to all the nations of the earth.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.26.7" data-parsed="Jer_26_7_0_0" data-passage="Jer 26.7" id="Jer.26.7"/><sup>7</sup>And the priests and the prophets and all the people heard Jeremiah speaking these words in the house of Jehovah. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.26.8" data-parsed="Jer_26_8_0_0" data-passage="Jer 26.8" id="Jer.26.8"/><sup>8</sup>And it came to pass, when Jeremiah had made an end of speaking all that Jehovah had commanded him to speak unto all the people, that the priests and the prophets and all the people laid hold on him, saying, Thou shalt surely die. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.26.9" data-parsed="Jer_26_9_0_0" data-passage="Jer 26.9" id="Jer.26.9"/><sup>9</sup>Why hast thou prophesied in the name of Jehovah, saying, This house shall be like Shiloh,
and this city shall be desolate, without inhabitant? And all the people were gathered unto Jeremiah in the house of Jehovah. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.26.10" data-parsed="Jer_26_10_0_0" data-passage="Jer 26.10" id="Jer.26.10"/><sup>10</sup>And when the princes of Judah heard these things, they came up from the king's house unto the house of Jehovah; and they sat in the entry of the new gate of Jehovah's <i>house</i>. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.26.11" data-parsed="Jer_26_11_0_0" data-passage="Jer 26.11" id="Jer.26.11"/><sup>11</sup>Then spake the priests and the prophets unto the princes and to all the people, saying, This man is worthy of death; for he hath prophesied against this city, as ye have heard with your ears. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.26.12" data-parsed="Jer_26_12_0_0" data-passage="Jer 26.12" id="Jer.26.12"/><sup>12</sup>Then spake Jeremiah unto all the princes and to all the people, saying, Jehovah sent me to prophesy against this house and against this city all the words that ye have heard. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.26.13" data-parsed="Jer_26_13_0_0" data-passage="Jer 26.13" id="Jer.26.13"/><sup>13</sup>Now therefore amend your ways and your doings, and obey the voice of Jehovah your God; and Jehovah will repent him of the evil that he hath pronounced against you. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.26.14" data-parsed="Jer_26_14_0_0" data-passage="Jer 26.14" id="Jer.26.14"/><sup>14</sup>But as for me, behold, I am in your hand: do with me as is good and right in your eyes. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.26.15" data-parsed="Jer_26_15_0_0" data-passage="Jer 26.15" id="Jer.26.15"/><sup>15</sup>Only know ye for certain that, if ye put me to death, ye will bring innocent blood upon yourselves, and upon this city, and upon the inhabitants thereof; for of a truth Jehovah hath sent me unto you to speak all these words in your ears.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.26.16" data-parsed="Jer_26_16_0_0" data-passage="Jer 26.16" id="Jer.26.16"/><sup>16</sup>Then said the princes and all the people unto the priests and to the prophets: This man is not worthy of death; for he hath spoken to us in the name of Jehovah our God. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.26.17" data-parsed="Jer_26_17_0_0" data-passage="Jer 26.17" id="Jer.26.17"/><sup>17</sup>Then rose up certain of the elders of the land, and spake to all the assembly of the people, saying, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.26.18" data-parsed="Jer_26_18_0_0" data-passage="Jer 26.18" id="Jer.26.18"/><sup>18</sup>Micah the Morashtite prophesied in the days of Hezekiah king of Judah; and he spake to all the people of Judah, saying, Thus saith Jehovah of hosts: Zion shall be plowed as a field, and Jerusalem shall become heaps, and the mountain of the house as the high places of a forest. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.26.19" data-parsed="Jer_26_19_0_0" data-passage="Jer 26.19" id="Jer.26.19"/><sup>19</sup>Did Hezekiah king of Judah and all Judah put him to death? did he not fear Jehovah, and entreat the favor of Jehovah, and Jehovah repented him of the evil which he had pronounced against them? Thus should we commit great evil against our own souls. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.26.20" data-parsed="Jer_26_20_0_0" data-passage="Jer 26.20" id="Jer.26.20"/><sup>20</sup>And there was also a man that prophesied in the name of Jehovah, Uriah the son of Shemaiah of Kiriath-jearim; and he prophesied against this city and against this land according to all the words of Jeremiah: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.26.21" data-parsed="Jer_26_21_0_0" data-passage="Jer 26.21" id="Jer.26.21"/><sup>21</sup>and when Jehoiakim the king, with all his mighty-men, and all the princes, heard his words, the king sought to put him to death; but when Uriah heard it, he was afraid, and fled, and went into Egypt: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.26.22" data-parsed="Jer_26_22_0_0" data-passage="Jer 26.22" id="Jer.26.22"/><sup>22</sup>and Jehoiakim the king sent men into Egypt,
<i>namely</i>, Elnathan the son of Achbor, and certain men with him, into Egypt; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.26.23" data-parsed="Jer_26_23_0_0" data-passage="Jer 26.23" id="Jer.26.23"/><sup>23</sup>and they fetched forth Uriah out of Egypt, and brought him unto Jehoiakim the king, who slew him with the sword, and cast his dead body into the graves of the common people. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.26.24" data-parsed="Jer_26_24_0_0" data-passage="Jer 26.24" id="Jer.26.24"/><sup>24</sup>But the hand of Ahikam the son of Shaphan was with Jeremiah, that they should not give him into the hand of the people to put him to death.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>