<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Jeremiah 30</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Jeremiah 30</span></div><div data-next="Jer.31" data-prev="Jer.29" data-progress="64.25%" data-shorttitle="" id="Jer.30" title="Jeremiah 30">
<h2 id="Jer.30-p0.1">30</h2>
<p id="Jer.30-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.30.1" data-parsed="Jer_30_1_0_0" data-passage="Jer 30.1" id="Jer.30.1"/><sup>1</sup>The word that came to Jeremiah from Jehovah, saying, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.30.2" data-parsed="Jer_30_2_0_0" data-passage="Jer 30.2" id="Jer.30.2"/><sup>2</sup>Thus speaketh Jehovah, the God of Israel, saying, Write thee all the words that I have spoken unto thee in a book. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.30.3" data-parsed="Jer_30_3_0_0" data-passage="Jer 30.3" id="Jer.30.3"/><sup>3</sup>For, lo, the days come, saith Jehovah,
that I will turn again the captivity of my people Israel and Judah, saith Jehovah; and I will cause them to return to the land that I gave to their fathers, and they shall possess it. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.30.4" data-parsed="Jer_30_4_0_0" data-passage="Jer 30.4" id="Jer.30.4"/><sup>4</sup>And these are the words that Jehovah spake concerning Israel and concerning Judah. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.30.5" data-parsed="Jer_30_5_0_0" data-passage="Jer 30.5" id="Jer.30.5"/><sup>5</sup>For thus saith Jehovah: We have heard a voice of trembling, of fear, and not of peace. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.30.6" data-parsed="Jer_30_6_0_0" data-passage="Jer 30.6" id="Jer.30.6"/><sup>6</sup>Ask ye now,
and see whether a man doth travail with child: wherefore do I see every man with his hands on his loins, as a woman in travail, and all faces are turned into paleness? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.30.7" data-parsed="Jer_30_7_0_0" data-passage="Jer 30.7" id="Jer.30.7"/><sup>7</sup>Alas! for that day is great, so that none is like it: it is even the time of Jacob's trouble; but he shall be saved out of it.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.30.8" data-parsed="Jer_30_8_0_0" data-passage="Jer 30.8" id="Jer.30.8"/><sup>8</sup>And it shall come to pass in that day, saith Jehovah of hosts, that I will break his yoke from off thy neck, and will burst thy bonds; and strangers shall no more make him their bondman; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.30.9" data-parsed="Jer_30_9_0_0" data-passage="Jer 30.9" id="Jer.30.9"/><sup>9</sup>but they shall serve Jehovah their God, and David their king, whom I will raise up unto them.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.30.10" data-parsed="Jer_30_10_0_0" data-passage="Jer 30.10" id="Jer.30.10"/><sup>10</sup>Therefore fear thou not, O Jacob my servant, saith Jehovah; neither be dismayed, O Israel: for, lo, I will save thee from afar, and thy seed from the land of their captivity; and Jacob shall return, and shall be quiet and at ease, and none shall make him afraid. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.30.11" data-parsed="Jer_30_11_0_0" data-passage="Jer 30.11" id="Jer.30.11"/><sup>11</sup>For I am with thee, saith Jehovah, to save thee: for I will make a full end of all the nations whither I have scattered thee, but I will not make a full end of thee; but I will correct thee in measure, and will in no wise leave thee unpunished. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.30.12" data-parsed="Jer_30_12_0_0" data-passage="Jer 30.12" id="Jer.30.12"/><sup>12</sup>For thus saith Jehovah, Thy hurt is incurable, and thy wound grievous.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.30.13" data-parsed="Jer_30_13_0_0" data-passage="Jer 30.13" id="Jer.30.13"/><sup>13</sup>There is none to plead thy cause, that thou mayest be bound up: thou hast no healing medicines. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.30.14" data-parsed="Jer_30_14_0_0" data-passage="Jer 30.14" id="Jer.30.14"/><sup>14</sup>All thy lovers have forgotten thee; they seek thee not: for I have wounded thee with the wound of an enemy, with the chastisement of a cruel one, for the greatness of thine iniquity, because thy sins were increased. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.30.15" data-parsed="Jer_30_15_0_0" data-passage="Jer 30.15" id="Jer.30.15"/><sup>15</sup>Why criest thou for thy hurt? thy pain is incurable: for the greatness of thine iniquity, because thy sins were increased, I have done these things unto thee. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.30.16" data-parsed="Jer_30_16_0_0" data-passage="Jer 30.16" id="Jer.30.16"/><sup>16</sup>Therefore all they that devour thee shall be devoured; and all thine adversaries, every one of them,
shall go into captivity; and they that despoil thee shall be a spoil, and all that prey upon thee will I give for a prey. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.30.17" data-parsed="Jer_30_17_0_0" data-passage="Jer 30.17" id="Jer.30.17"/><sup>17</sup>For I will restore health unto thee, and I will heal thee of thy wounds, saith Jehovah; because they have called thee an outcast, <i>saying</i>, It is Zion, whom no man seeketh after. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.30.18" data-parsed="Jer_30_18_0_0" data-passage="Jer 30.18" id="Jer.30.18"/><sup>18</sup>Thus saith Jehovah: Behold, I will turn again the captivity of Jacob's tents, and have compassion on his dwelling-places; and the city shall be builded upon its own hill, and the palace shall be inhabited after its own manner. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.30.19" data-parsed="Jer_30_19_0_0" data-passage="Jer 30.19" id="Jer.30.19"/><sup>19</sup>And out of them shall proceed thanksgiving and the voice of them that make merry: and I will multiply them, and they shall not be few; I will also glorify them, and they shall not be small. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.30.20" data-parsed="Jer_30_20_0_0" data-passage="Jer 30.20" id="Jer.30.20"/><sup>20</sup>Their children also shall be as aforetime, and their congregation shall be established before me; and I will punish all that oppress them. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.30.21" data-parsed="Jer_30_21_0_0" data-passage="Jer 30.21" id="Jer.30.21"/><sup>21</sup>And their prince shall be of themselves, and their ruler shall proceed from the midst of them;
and I will cause him to draw near, and he shall approach unto me: for who is he that hath had boldness to approach unto me? saith Jehovah. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.30.22" data-parsed="Jer_30_22_0_0" data-passage="Jer 30.22" id="Jer.30.22"/><sup>22</sup>And ye shall be my people, and I will be your God. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.30.23" data-parsed="Jer_30_23_0_0" data-passage="Jer 30.23" id="Jer.30.23"/><sup>23</sup>Behold, the tempest of Jehovah, <i>even his</i> wrath, is gone forth, a sweeping tempest: it shall burst upon the head of the wicked. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.30.24" data-parsed="Jer_30_24_0_0" data-passage="Jer 30.24" id="Jer.30.24"/><sup>24</sup>The fierce anger of Jehovah shall not return, until he have executed, and till he have performed the intents of his heart: in the latter days ye shall understand it.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>