<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Jeremiah 31</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Jeremiah 31</span></div><div data-next="Jer.32" data-prev="Jer.30" data-progress="64.34%" data-shorttitle="" id="Jer.31" title="Jeremiah 31">
<h2 id="Jer.31-p0.1">31</h2>
<p id="Jer.31-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.31.1" data-parsed="Jer_31_1_0_0" data-passage="Jer 31.1" id="Jer.31.1"/><sup>1</sup>At that time, saith Jehovah, will I be the God of all the families of Israel, and they shall be my people. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.31.2" data-parsed="Jer_31_2_0_0" data-passage="Jer 31.2" id="Jer.31.2"/><sup>2</sup>Thus saith Jehovah, The people that were left of the sword found favor in the wilderness; even Israel, when I went to cause him to rest. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.31.3" data-parsed="Jer_31_3_0_0" data-passage="Jer 31.3" id="Jer.31.3"/><sup>3</sup>Jehovah appeared of old unto me,
<i>saying</i>, Yea, I have loved thee with an everlasting love: therefore with lovingkindness have I drawn thee. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.31.4" data-parsed="Jer_31_4_0_0" data-passage="Jer 31.4" id="Jer.31.4"/><sup>4</sup>Again will I build thee, and thou shalt be built, O virgin of Israel: again shalt thou be adorned with thy tabrets, and shalt go forth in the dances of them that make merry. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.31.5" data-parsed="Jer_31_5_0_0" data-passage="Jer 31.5" id="Jer.31.5"/><sup>5</sup>Again shalt thou plant vineyards upon the mountains of Samaria; the planters shall plant, and shall enjoy <i>the fruit thereof</i>. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.31.6" data-parsed="Jer_31_6_0_0" data-passage="Jer 31.6" id="Jer.31.6"/><sup>6</sup>For there shall be a day, that the watchmen upon the hills of Ephraim shall cry, Arise ye, and let us go up to Zion unto Jehovah our God. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.31.7" data-parsed="Jer_31_7_0_0" data-passage="Jer 31.7" id="Jer.31.7"/><sup>7</sup>For thus saith Jehovah, Sing with gladness for Jacob, and shout for the chief of the nations: publish ye,
praise ye, and say, O Jehovah, save thy people, the remnant of Israel.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.31.8" data-parsed="Jer_31_8_0_0" data-passage="Jer 31.8" id="Jer.31.8"/><sup>8</sup>Behold, I will bring them from the north country, and gather them from the uttermost parts of the earth, <i>and</i> with them the blind and the lame, the woman with child and her that travaileth with child together: a great company shall they return hither. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.31.9" data-parsed="Jer_31_9_0_0" data-passage="Jer 31.9" id="Jer.31.9"/><sup>9</sup>They shall come with weeping;
and with supplications will I lead them: I will cause them to walk by rivers of waters, in a straight way wherein they shall not stumble; for I am a father to Israel, and Ephraim is my first-born. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.31.10" data-parsed="Jer_31_10_0_0" data-passage="Jer 31.10" id="Jer.31.10"/><sup>10</sup>Hear the word of Jehovah, O ye nations, and declare it in the isles afar off; and say, He that scattered Israel will gather him, and keep him, as shepherd doth his flock.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.31.11" data-parsed="Jer_31_11_0_0" data-passage="Jer 31.11" id="Jer.31.11"/><sup>11</sup>For Jehovah hath ransomed Jacob, and redeemed him from the hand of him that was stronger than he. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.31.12" data-parsed="Jer_31_12_0_0" data-passage="Jer 31.12" id="Jer.31.12"/><sup>12</sup>And they shall come and sing in the height of Zion, and shall flow unto the goodness of Jehovah, to the grain, and to the new wine, and to the oil, and to the young of the flock and of the herd:
and their soul shall be as a watered garden; and they shall not sorrow any more at all. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.31.13" data-parsed="Jer_31_13_0_0" data-passage="Jer 31.13" id="Jer.31.13"/><sup>13</sup>Then shall the virgin rejoice in the dance, and the young men and the old together; for I will turn their mourning into joy, and will comfort them, and make them rejoice from their sorrow. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.31.14" data-parsed="Jer_31_14_0_0" data-passage="Jer 31.14" id="Jer.31.14"/><sup>14</sup>And I will satiate the soul of the priests with fatness, and my people shall be satisfied with my goodness, saith Jehovah. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.31.15" data-parsed="Jer_31_15_0_0" data-passage="Jer 31.15" id="Jer.31.15"/><sup>15</sup>Thus saith Jehovah: A voice is heard in Ramah, lamentation, and bitter weeping, Rachel weeping for her children; she refuseth to be comforted for her children, because they are not. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.31.16" data-parsed="Jer_31_16_0_0" data-passage="Jer 31.16" id="Jer.31.16"/><sup>16</sup>Thus saith Jehovah: Refrain thy voice from weeping, and thine eyes from tears; for thy work shall be rewarded, saith Jehovah; and they shall come again from the land of the enemy. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.31.17" data-parsed="Jer_31_17_0_0" data-passage="Jer 31.17" id="Jer.31.17"/><sup>17</sup>And there is hope for thy latter end, saith Jehovah; and <i>thy</i> children shall come again to their own border. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.31.18" data-parsed="Jer_31_18_0_0" data-passage="Jer 31.18" id="Jer.31.18"/><sup>18</sup>I have surely heard Ephraim bemoaning himself <i>thus</i>,
Thou hast chastised me, and I was chastised, as a calf unaccustomed <i>to the yoke</i>: turn thou me, and I shall be turned; for thou art Jehovah my God. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.31.19" data-parsed="Jer_31_19_0_0" data-passage="Jer 31.19" id="Jer.31.19"/><sup>19</sup>Surely after that I was turned, I repented; and after that I was instructed, I smote upon my thigh: I was ashamed, yea, even confounded,
because I did bear the reproach of my youth. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.31.20" data-parsed="Jer_31_20_0_0" data-passage="Jer 31.20" id="Jer.31.20"/><sup>20</sup>Is Ephraim my dear son? is he a darling child? for as often as I speak against him, I do earnestly remember him still: therefore my heart yearneth for him; I will surely have mercy upon him, saith Jehovah. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.31.21" data-parsed="Jer_31_21_0_0" data-passage="Jer 31.21" id="Jer.31.21"/><sup>21</sup>Set thee up waymarks, make thee guide-posts; set thy heart toward the highway, even the way by which thou wentest: turn again, O virgin of Israel, turn again to these thy cities.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.31.22" data-parsed="Jer_31_22_0_0" data-passage="Jer 31.22" id="Jer.31.22"/><sup>22</sup>How long wilt thou go hither and thither, O thou backsliding daughter?
for Jehovah hath created a new thing in the earth: a woman shall encompass a man. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.31.23" data-parsed="Jer_31_23_0_0" data-passage="Jer 31.23" id="Jer.31.23"/><sup>23</sup>Thus saith Jehovah of hosts, the God of Israel, Yet again shall they use this speech in the land of Judah and in the cities thereof, when I shall bring again their captivity: Jehovah bless thee, O habitation of righteousness, O mountain of holiness. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.31.24" data-parsed="Jer_31_24_0_0" data-passage="Jer 31.24" id="Jer.31.24"/><sup>24</sup>And Judah and all the cities thereof shall dwell therein together, the husbandmen, and they that go about with flocks. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.31.25" data-parsed="Jer_31_25_0_0" data-passage="Jer 31.25" id="Jer.31.25"/><sup>25</sup>For I have satiated the weary soul, and every sorrowful soul have I replenished. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.31.26" data-parsed="Jer_31_26_0_0" data-passage="Jer 31.26" id="Jer.31.26"/><sup>26</sup>Upon this I awaked, and beheld; and my sleep was sweet unto me. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.31.27" data-parsed="Jer_31_27_0_0" data-passage="Jer 31.27" id="Jer.31.27"/><sup>27</sup>Behold, the days come, saith Jehovah, that I will sow the house of Israel and the house of Judah with the seed of man, and with the seed of beast. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.31.28" data-parsed="Jer_31_28_0_0" data-passage="Jer 31.28" id="Jer.31.28"/><sup>28</sup>And it shall come to pass that, like as I have watched over them to pluck up and to break down and to overthrow and to destroy and to afflict, so will I watch over them to build and to plant,
saith Jehovah. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.31.29" data-parsed="Jer_31_29_0_0" data-passage="Jer 31.29" id="Jer.31.29"/><sup>29</sup>In those days they shall say no more, The fathers have eaten sour grapes, and the children's teeth are set on edge. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.31.30" data-parsed="Jer_31_30_0_0" data-passage="Jer 31.30" id="Jer.31.30"/><sup>30</sup>But every one shall die for his own iniquity: every man that eateth the sour grapes,
his teeth shall be set on edge. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.31.31" data-parsed="Jer_31_31_0_0" data-passage="Jer 31.31" id="Jer.31.31"/><sup>31</sup>Behold, the days come, saith Jehovah,
that I will make a new covenant with the house of Israel, and with the house of Judah: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.31.32" data-parsed="Jer_31_32_0_0" data-passage="Jer 31.32" id="Jer.31.32"/><sup>32</sup>not according to the covenant that I made with their fathers in the day that I took them by the hand to bring them out of the land of Egypt; which my covenant they brake, although I was a husband unto them,
saith Jehovah. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.31.33" data-parsed="Jer_31_33_0_0" data-passage="Jer 31.33" id="Jer.31.33"/><sup>33</sup>But this is the covenant that I will make with the house of Israel after those days, saith Jehovah: I will put my law in their inward parts, and in their heart will I write it; and I will be their God, and they shall be my people: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.31.34" data-parsed="Jer_31_34_0_0" data-passage="Jer 31.34" id="Jer.31.34"/><sup>34</sup>and they shall teach no more every man his neighbor, and every man his brother, saying, Know Jehovah; for they shall all know me, from the least of them unto the greatest of them, saith Jehovah: for I will forgive their iniquity, and their sin will I remember no more.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.31.35" data-parsed="Jer_31_35_0_0" data-passage="Jer 31.35" id="Jer.31.35"/><sup>35</sup>Thus saith Jehovah, who giveth the sun for a light by day, and the ordinances of the moon and of the stars for a light by night, who stirreth up the sea, so that the waves thereof roar; Jehovah of hosts is his name:

<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.31.36" data-parsed="Jer_31_36_0_0" data-passage="Jer 31.36" id="Jer.31.36"/><sup>36</sup>If these ordinances depart from before me, saith Jehovah, then the seed of Israel also shall cease from being a nation before me for ever. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.31.37" data-parsed="Jer_31_37_0_0" data-passage="Jer 31.37" id="Jer.31.37"/><sup>37</sup>Thus saith Jehovah: If heaven above can be measured, and the foundations of the earth searched out beneath, then will I also cast off all the seed of Israel for all that they have done, saith Jehovah. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.31.38" data-parsed="Jer_31_38_0_0" data-passage="Jer 31.38" id="Jer.31.38"/><sup>38</sup>Behold, the days come,
saith Jehovah, that the city shall be built to Jehovah from the tower of Hananel unto the gate of the corner. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.31.39" data-parsed="Jer_31_39_0_0" data-passage="Jer 31.39" id="Jer.31.39"/><sup>39</sup>And the measuring line shall go out further straight onward unto the hill Gareb, and shall turn about unto Goah. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.31.40" data-parsed="Jer_31_40_0_0" data-passage="Jer 31.40" id="Jer.31.40"/><sup>40</sup>And the whole valley of the dead bodies and of the ashes, and all the fields unto the brook Kidron, unto the corner of the horse gate toward the east, shall be holy unto Jehovah; it shall not be plucked up, nor thrown down any more for ever.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>