<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Jeremiah 36</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Jeremiah 36</span></div><div data-next="Jer.37" data-prev="Jer.35" data-progress="64.96%" data-shorttitle="" id="Jer.36" title="Jeremiah 36">
<h2 id="Jer.36-p0.1">36</h2>
<p id="Jer.36-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.36.1" data-parsed="Jer_36_1_0_0" data-passage="Jer 36.1" id="Jer.36.1"/><sup>1</sup>And it came to pass in the fourth year of Jehoiakim the son of Josiah, king of Judah, that this word came unto Jeremiah from Jehovah,
saying, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.36.2" data-parsed="Jer_36_2_0_0" data-passage="Jer 36.2" id="Jer.36.2"/><sup>2</sup>Take thee a roll of a book, and write therein all the words that I have spoken unto thee against Israel, and against Judah, and against all the nations, from the day I spake unto thee, from the days of Josiah, even unto this day. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.36.3" data-parsed="Jer_36_3_0_0" data-passage="Jer 36.3" id="Jer.36.3"/><sup>3</sup>It may be that the house of Judah will hear all the evil which I purpose to do unto them; that they may return every man from his evil way; that I may forgive their iniquity and their sin. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.36.4" data-parsed="Jer_36_4_0_0" data-passage="Jer 36.4" id="Jer.36.4"/><sup>4</sup>Then Jeremiah called Baruch the son of Neriah; and Baruch wrote from the mouth of Jeremiah all the words of Jehovah, which he had spoken unto him, upon a roll of a book. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.36.5" data-parsed="Jer_36_5_0_0" data-passage="Jer 36.5" id="Jer.36.5"/><sup>5</sup>And Jeremiah commanded Baruch, saying, I am shut up; I cannot go into the house of Jehovah: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.36.6" data-parsed="Jer_36_6_0_0" data-passage="Jer 36.6" id="Jer.36.6"/><sup>6</sup>therefore go thou, and read in the roll,
which thou hast written from my mouth, the words of Jehovah in the ears of the people in Jehovah's house upon the fast-day; and also thou shalt read them in the ears of all Judah that come out of their cities. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.36.7" data-parsed="Jer_36_7_0_0" data-passage="Jer 36.7" id="Jer.36.7"/><sup>7</sup>It may be they will present their supplication before Jehovah, and will return every one from his evil way; for great is the anger and the wrath that Jehovah hath pronounced against this people. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.36.8" data-parsed="Jer_36_8_0_0" data-passage="Jer 36.8" id="Jer.36.8"/><sup>8</sup>And Baruch the son of Neriah did according to all that Jeremiah the prophet commanded him, reading in the book the words of Jehovah in Jehovah's house. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.36.9" data-parsed="Jer_36_9_0_0" data-passage="Jer 36.9" id="Jer.36.9"/><sup>9</sup>Now it came to pass in the fifth year of Jehoiakim the son of Josiah, king of Judah, in the ninth month,
that all the people in Jerusalem, and all the people that came from the cities of Judah unto Jerusalem, proclaimed a fast before Jehovah. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.36.10" data-parsed="Jer_36_10_0_0" data-passage="Jer 36.10" id="Jer.36.10"/><sup>10</sup>Then read Baruch in the book the words of Jeremiah in the house of Jehovah, in the chamber of Gemariah the son of Shaphan, the scribe, in the upper court, at the entry of the new gate of Jehovah's house, in the ears of all the people.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.36.11" data-parsed="Jer_36_11_0_0" data-passage="Jer 36.11" id="Jer.36.11"/><sup>11</sup>And when Micaiah the son of Gemariah, the son of Shaphan, had heard out of the book all the words of Jehovah, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.36.12" data-parsed="Jer_36_12_0_0" data-passage="Jer 36.12" id="Jer.36.12"/><sup>12</sup>he went down into the king's house, into the scribe's chamber: and, lo, all the princes were sitting there, <i>to wit</i>, Elishama the scribe, and Delaiah the son of Shemaiah,
and Elnathan the son of Achbor, and Gemariah the son of Shaphan, and Zedekiah the son of Hananiah, and all the princes. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.36.13" data-parsed="Jer_36_13_0_0" data-passage="Jer 36.13" id="Jer.36.13"/><sup>13</sup>Then Micaiah declared unto them all the words that he had heard, when Baruch read the book in the ears of the people. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.36.14" data-parsed="Jer_36_14_0_0" data-passage="Jer 36.14" id="Jer.36.14"/><sup>14</sup>Therefore all the princes sent Jehudi the son of Nethaniah, the son of Shelemiah, the son of Cushi, unto Baruch, saying, Take in thy hand the roll wherein thou hast read in the ears of the people, and come. So Baruch the son of Neriah took the roll in his hand, and came unto them. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.36.15" data-parsed="Jer_36_15_0_0" data-passage="Jer 36.15" id="Jer.36.15"/><sup>15</sup>And they said unto him, Sit down now, and read it in our ears. So Baruch read it in their ears. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.36.16" data-parsed="Jer_36_16_0_0" data-passage="Jer 36.16" id="Jer.36.16"/><sup>16</sup>Now it came to pass, when they had heard all the words, they turned in fear one toward another, and said unto Baruch,
We will surely tell the king of all these words. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.36.17" data-parsed="Jer_36_17_0_0" data-passage="Jer 36.17" id="Jer.36.17"/><sup>17</sup>And they asked Baruch,
saying, Tell us now, How didst thou write all these words at his mouth?

<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.36.18" data-parsed="Jer_36_18_0_0" data-passage="Jer 36.18" id="Jer.36.18"/><sup>18</sup>Then Baruch answered them, He pronounced all these words unto me with his mouth, and I wrote them with ink in the book. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.36.19" data-parsed="Jer_36_19_0_0" data-passage="Jer 36.19" id="Jer.36.19"/><sup>19</sup>Then said the princes unto Baruch, Go, hide thee, thou and Jeremiah; and let no man know where ye are. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.36.20" data-parsed="Jer_36_20_0_0" data-passage="Jer 36.20" id="Jer.36.20"/><sup>20</sup>And they went in to the king into the court; but they had laid up the roll in the chamber of Elishama the scribe; and they told all the words in the ears of the king. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.36.21" data-parsed="Jer_36_21_0_0" data-passage="Jer 36.21" id="Jer.36.21"/><sup>21</sup>So the king sent Jehudi to fetch the roll; and he took it out of the chamber of Elishama the scribe. And Jehudi read it in the ears of the king, and in the ears of all the princes that stood beside the king. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.36.22" data-parsed="Jer_36_22_0_0" data-passage="Jer 36.22" id="Jer.36.22"/><sup>22</sup>Now the king was sitting in the winter-house in the ninth month: and <i>there was a fire in</i> the brazier burning before him.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.36.23" data-parsed="Jer_36_23_0_0" data-passage="Jer 36.23" id="Jer.36.23"/><sup>23</sup>And it came to pass, when Jehudi had read three or four leaves, that <i>the king</i> cut it with the penknife, and cast it into the fire that was in the brazier, until all the roll was consumed in the fire that was in the brazier. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.36.24" data-parsed="Jer_36_24_0_0" data-passage="Jer 36.24" id="Jer.36.24"/><sup>24</sup>And they were not afraid, nor rent their garments, neither the king, nor any of his servants that heard all these words. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.36.25" data-parsed="Jer_36_25_0_0" data-passage="Jer 36.25" id="Jer.36.25"/><sup>25</sup>Moreover Elnathan and Delaiah and Gemariah had made intercession to the king that he would not burn the roll; but he would not hear them. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.36.26" data-parsed="Jer_36_26_0_0" data-passage="Jer 36.26" id="Jer.36.26"/><sup>26</sup>And the king commanded Jerahmeel the king's son, and Seraiah the son of Azriel, and Shelemiah the son of Abdeel, to take Baruch the scribe and Jeremiah the prophet; but Jehovah hid them. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.36.27" data-parsed="Jer_36_27_0_0" data-passage="Jer 36.27" id="Jer.36.27"/><sup>27</sup>Then the word of Jehovah came to Jeremiah, after that the king had burned the roll, and the words which Baruch wrote at the mouth of Jeremiah, saying, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.36.28" data-parsed="Jer_36_28_0_0" data-passage="Jer 36.28" id="Jer.36.28"/><sup>28</sup>Take thee again another roll,
and write in it all the former words that were in the first roll, which Jehoiakim the king of Judah hath burned. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.36.29" data-parsed="Jer_36_29_0_0" data-passage="Jer 36.29" id="Jer.36.29"/><sup>29</sup>And concerning Jehoiakim king of Judah thou shalt say, Thus saith Jehovah: Thou hast burned this roll,
saying, Why hast thou written therein, saying, The king of Babylon shall certainly come and destroy this land, and shall cause to cease from thence man and beast? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.36.30" data-parsed="Jer_36_30_0_0" data-passage="Jer 36.30" id="Jer.36.30"/><sup>30</sup>Therefore thus saith Jehovah concerning Jehoiakim king of Judah: He shall have none to sit upon the throne of David; and his dead body shall be cast out in the day to the heat, and in the night to the frost.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.36.31" data-parsed="Jer_36_31_0_0" data-passage="Jer 36.31" id="Jer.36.31"/><sup>31</sup>And I will punish him and his seed and his servants for their iniquity;
and I will bring upon them, and upon the inhabitants of Jerusalem, and upon the men of Judah, all the evil that I have pronounced against them, but they hearkened not. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.36.32" data-parsed="Jer_36_32_0_0" data-passage="Jer 36.32" id="Jer.36.32"/><sup>32</sup>Then took Jeremiah another roll, and gave it to Baruch the scribe, the son of Neriah, who wrote therein from the mouth of Jeremiah all the words of the book which Jehoiakim king of Judah had burned in the fire; and there were added besides unto them many like words.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>