<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Jeremiah 33</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Jeremiah 33</span></div><div data-next="Jer.34" data-prev="Jer.32" data-progress="64.67%" data-shorttitle="" id="Jer.33" title="Jeremiah 33">
<h2 id="Jer.33-p0.1">33</h2>
<p id="Jer.33-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.33.1" data-parsed="Jer_33_1_0_0" data-passage="Jer 33.1" id="Jer.33.1"/><sup>1</sup>Moreover the word of Jehovah came unto Jeremiah the second time,
while he was yet shut up in the court of the guard, saying, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.33.2" data-parsed="Jer_33_2_0_0" data-passage="Jer 33.2" id="Jer.33.2"/><sup>2</sup>Thus saith Jehovah that doeth it, Jehovah that formeth it to establish it; Jehovah is his name: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.33.3" data-parsed="Jer_33_3_0_0" data-passage="Jer 33.3" id="Jer.33.3"/><sup>3</sup>Call unto me, and I will answer thee, and will show thee great things, and difficult, which thou knowest not. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.33.4" data-parsed="Jer_33_4_0_0" data-passage="Jer 33.4" id="Jer.33.4"/><sup>4</sup>For thus saith Jehovah,
the God of Israel, concerning the houses of this city, and concerning the houses of the kings of Judah, which are broken down <i>to make a defence</i>
against the mounds and against the sword; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.33.5" data-parsed="Jer_33_5_0_0" data-passage="Jer 33.5" id="Jer.33.5"/><sup>5</sup>while <i>men</i> come to fight with the Chaldeans, and to fill them with the dead bodies of men, whom I have slain in mine anger and in my wrath, and for all whose wickedness I have hid my face from this city: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.33.6" data-parsed="Jer_33_6_0_0" data-passage="Jer 33.6" id="Jer.33.6"/><sup>6</sup>Behold, I will bring it health and cure, and I will cure them; and I will reveal unto them abundance of peace and truth. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.33.7" data-parsed="Jer_33_7_0_0" data-passage="Jer 33.7" id="Jer.33.7"/><sup>7</sup>And I will cause the captivity of Judah and the captivity of Israel to return, and will build them, as at the first. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.33.8" data-parsed="Jer_33_8_0_0" data-passage="Jer 33.8" id="Jer.33.8"/><sup>8</sup>And I will cleanse them from all their iniquity, whereby they have sinned against me;
and I will pardon all their iniquities, whereby they have sinned against me,
and whereby they have transgressed against me. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.33.9" data-parsed="Jer_33_9_0_0" data-passage="Jer 33.9" id="Jer.33.9"/><sup>9</sup>And <i>this city</i>
shall be to me for a name of joy, for a praise and for a glory, before all the nations of the earth, which shall hear all the good that I do unto them,
and shall fear and tremble for all the good and for all the peace that I procure unto it. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.33.10" data-parsed="Jer_33_10_0_0" data-passage="Jer 33.10" id="Jer.33.10"/><sup>10</sup>Thus saith Jehovah: Yet again there shall be heard in this place, whereof ye say, It is waste, without man and without beast, even in the cities of Judah, and in the streets of Jerusalem, that are desolate,
without man and without inhabitant and without beast, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.33.11" data-parsed="Jer_33_11_0_0" data-passage="Jer 33.11" id="Jer.33.11"/><sup>11</sup>the voice of joy and the voice of gladness, the voice of the bridegroom and the voice of the bride, the voice of them that say, Give thanks to Jehovah of hosts, for Jehovah is good, for his lovingkindness <i>endureth</i> for ever; <i>and of them</i> that bring <i>sacrifices of</i> thanksgiving into the house of Jehovah. For I will cause the captivity of the land to return as at the first, saith Jehovah. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.33.12" data-parsed="Jer_33_12_0_0" data-passage="Jer 33.12" id="Jer.33.12"/><sup>12</sup>Thus saith Jehovah of hosts: Yet again shall there be in this place, which is waste, without man and without beast, and in all the cities thereof, a habitation of shepherds causing their flocks to lie down. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.33.13" data-parsed="Jer_33_13_0_0" data-passage="Jer 33.13" id="Jer.33.13"/><sup>13</sup>In the cities of the hill-country, in the cities of the lowland,
and in the cities of the South, and in the land of Benjamin, and in the places about Jerusalem, and in the cities of Judah, shall the flocks again pass under the hands of him that numbereth them, saith Jehovah. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.33.14" data-parsed="Jer_33_14_0_0" data-passage="Jer 33.14" id="Jer.33.14"/><sup>14</sup>Behold,
the days come, saith Jehovah, that I will perform that good word which I have spoken concerning the house of Israel and concerning the house of Judah.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.33.15" data-parsed="Jer_33_15_0_0" data-passage="Jer 33.15" id="Jer.33.15"/><sup>15</sup>In those days, and at that time, will I cause a Branch of righteousness to grow up unto David; and he shall execute justice and righteousness in the land. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.33.16" data-parsed="Jer_33_16_0_0" data-passage="Jer 33.16" id="Jer.33.16"/><sup>16</sup>In those days shall Judah be saved, and Jerusalem shall dwell safely; and this is <i>the name</i> whereby she shall be called: Jehovah our righteousness. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.33.17" data-parsed="Jer_33_17_0_0" data-passage="Jer 33.17" id="Jer.33.17"/><sup>17</sup>For thus saith Jehovah: David shall never want a man to sit upon the throne of the house of Israel; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.33.18" data-parsed="Jer_33_18_0_0" data-passage="Jer 33.18" id="Jer.33.18"/><sup>18</sup>neither shall the priests the Levites want a man before me to offer burnt-offerings, and to burn meal-offerings, and to do sacrifice continually. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.33.19" data-parsed="Jer_33_19_0_0" data-passage="Jer 33.19" id="Jer.33.19"/><sup>19</sup>And the word of Jehovah came unto Jeremiah, saying, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.33.20" data-parsed="Jer_33_20_0_0" data-passage="Jer 33.20" id="Jer.33.20"/><sup>20</sup>Thus saith Jehovah: If ye can break my covenant of the day, and my covenant of the night, so that there shall not be day and night in their season; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.33.21" data-parsed="Jer_33_21_0_0" data-passage="Jer 33.21" id="Jer.33.21"/><sup>21</sup>then may also my covenant be broken with David my servant, that he shall not have a son to reign upon his throne;
and with the Levites the priests, my ministers. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.33.22" data-parsed="Jer_33_22_0_0" data-passage="Jer 33.22" id="Jer.33.22"/><sup>22</sup>As the host of heaven cannot be numbered, neither the sand of the sea measured; so will I multiply the seed of David my servant, and the Levites that minister unto me.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.33.23" data-parsed="Jer_33_23_0_0" data-passage="Jer 33.23" id="Jer.33.23"/><sup>23</sup>And the word of Jehovah came to Jeremiah, saying, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.33.24" data-parsed="Jer_33_24_0_0" data-passage="Jer 33.24" id="Jer.33.24"/><sup>24</sup>Considerest thou not what this people have spoken, saying, The two families which Jehovah did choose, he hath cast them off? thus do they despise my people, that they should be no more a nation before them. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.33.25" data-parsed="Jer_33_25_0_0" data-passage="Jer 33.25" id="Jer.33.25"/><sup>25</sup>Thus saith Jehovah: If my covenant of day and night <i>stand</i> not, if I have not appointed the ordinances of heaven and earth; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.33.26" data-parsed="Jer_33_26_0_0" data-passage="Jer 33.26" id="Jer.33.26"/><sup>26</sup>then will I also cast away the seed of Jacob, and of David my servant, so that I will not take of his seed to be rulers over the seed of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob: for I will cause their captivity to return, and will have mercy on them.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>