<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Jeremiah 41</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Jeremiah 41</span></div><div data-next="Jer.42" data-prev="Jer.40" data-progress="65.45%" data-shorttitle="" id="Jer.41" title="Jeremiah 41">
<h2 id="Jer.41-p0.1">41</h2>
<p id="Jer.41-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.41.1" data-parsed="Jer_41_1_0_0" data-passage="Jer 41.1" id="Jer.41.1"/><sup>1</sup>Now it came to pass in the seventh month, that Ishmael the son of Nethaniah, the son of Elishama, of the seed royal and <i>one of</i> the chief officers of the king, and ten men with him, came unto Gedaliah the son of Ahikam to Mizpah; and there they did eat bread together in Mizpah.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.41.2" data-parsed="Jer_41_2_0_0" data-passage="Jer 41.2" id="Jer.41.2"/><sup>2</sup>Then arose Ishmael the son of Nethaniah, and the ten men that were with him, and smote Gedaliah the son of Ahikam the son of Shaphan with the sword,
and slew him, whom the king of Babylon had made governor over the land.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.41.3" data-parsed="Jer_41_3_0_0" data-passage="Jer 41.3" id="Jer.41.3"/><sup>3</sup>Ishmael also slew all the Jews that were with him, <i>to wit</i>, with Gedaliah, at Mizpah, and the Chaldeans that were found there, the men of war.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.41.4" data-parsed="Jer_41_4_0_0" data-passage="Jer 41.4" id="Jer.41.4"/><sup>4</sup>And it came to pass the second day after he had slain Gedaliah, and no man knew it, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.41.5" data-parsed="Jer_41_5_0_0" data-passage="Jer 41.5" id="Jer.41.5"/><sup>5</sup>that there came men from Shechem, from Shiloh, and from Samaria, even fourscore men, having their beards shaven and their clothes rent, and having cut themselves, with meal-offerings and frankincense in their hand, to bring them to the house of Jehovah. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.41.6" data-parsed="Jer_41_6_0_0" data-passage="Jer 41.6" id="Jer.41.6"/><sup>6</sup>And Ishmael the son of Nethaniah went forth from Mizpah to meet them, weeping all along as he went: and it came to pass, as he met them, he said unto them, Come to Gedaliah the son of Ahikam. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.41.7" data-parsed="Jer_41_7_0_0" data-passage="Jer 41.7" id="Jer.41.7"/><sup>7</sup>And it was so, when they came into the midst of the city, that Ishmael the son of Nethaniah slew them, <i>and cast them</i> into the midst of the pit, he, and the men that were with him.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.41.8" data-parsed="Jer_41_8_0_0" data-passage="Jer 41.8" id="Jer.41.8"/><sup>8</sup>But ten men were found among them that said unto Ishmael, Slay us not;
for we have stores hidden in the field, of wheat, and of barley, and of oil,
and of honey. So he forbare, and slew them not among their brethren. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.41.9" data-parsed="Jer_41_9_0_0" data-passage="Jer 41.9" id="Jer.41.9"/><sup>9</sup>Now the pit wherein Ishmael cast all the dead bodies of the men whom he had slain, by the side of Gedaliah (the same was that which Asa the king had made for fear of Baasha king of Israel,) Ishmael the son of Nethaniah filled it with them that were slain. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.41.10" data-parsed="Jer_41_10_0_0" data-passage="Jer 41.10" id="Jer.41.10"/><sup>10</sup>Then Ishmael carried away captive all the residue of the people that were in Mizpah, even the king's daughters, and all the people that remained in Mizpah, whom Nebuzaradan the captain of the guard had committed to Gedaliah the son of Ahikam; Ishmael the son of Nethaniah carried them away captive, and departed to go over to the children of Ammon.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.41.11" data-parsed="Jer_41_11_0_0" data-passage="Jer 41.11" id="Jer.41.11"/><sup>11</sup>But when Johanan the son of Kareah, and all the captains of the forces that were with him, heard of all the evil that Ishmael the son of Nethaniah had done, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.41.12" data-parsed="Jer_41_12_0_0" data-passage="Jer 41.12" id="Jer.41.12"/><sup>12</sup>then they took all the men, and went to fight with Ishmael the son of Nethaniah, and found him by the great waters that are in Gibeon.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.41.13" data-parsed="Jer_41_13_0_0" data-passage="Jer 41.13" id="Jer.41.13"/><sup>13</sup>Now it came to pass that, when all the people that were with Ishmael saw Johanan the son of Kareah, and all the captains of the forces that were with him, then they were glad. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.41.14" data-parsed="Jer_41_14_0_0" data-passage="Jer 41.14" id="Jer.41.14"/><sup>14</sup>So all the people that Ishmael had carried away captive from Mizpah turned about and came back, and went unto Johanan the son of Kareah. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.41.15" data-parsed="Jer_41_15_0_0" data-passage="Jer 41.15" id="Jer.41.15"/><sup>15</sup>But Ishmael the son of Nethaniah escaped from Johanan with eight men, and went to the children of Ammon. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.41.16" data-parsed="Jer_41_16_0_0" data-passage="Jer 41.16" id="Jer.41.16"/><sup>16</sup>Then took Johanan the son of Kareah, and all the captains of the forces that were with him, all the remnant of the people whom he had recovered from Ishmael the son of Nethaniah, from Mizpah, after that he had slain Gedaliah the son of Ahikam, <i>to wit</i>, the men of war, and the women, and the children,
and the eunuchs, whom he had brought back from Gibeon: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.41.17" data-parsed="Jer_41_17_0_0" data-passage="Jer 41.17" id="Jer.41.17"/><sup>17</sup>and they departed, and dwelt in Geruth Chimham, which is by Beth-lehem, to go to enter into Egypt, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.41.18" data-parsed="Jer_41_18_0_0" data-passage="Jer 41.18" id="Jer.41.18"/><sup>18</sup>because of the Chaldeans; for they were afraid of them,
because Ishmael the son of Nethaniah had slain Gedaliah the son of Ahikam,
whom the king of Babylon made governor over the land.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>