<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Jeremiah 49</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Jeremiah 49</span></div><div data-next="Jer.50" data-prev="Jer.48" data-progress="66.13%" data-shorttitle="" id="Jer.49" title="Jeremiah 49">
<h2 id="Jer.49-p0.1">49</h2>
<p id="Jer.49-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.49.1" data-parsed="Jer_49_1_0_0" data-passage="Jer 49.1" id="Jer.49.1"/><sup>1</sup>Of the children of Ammon. Thus saith Jehovah: Hath Israel no sons?
hath he no heir? why then doth Malcam possess Gad, and his people well in the cities thereof? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.49.2" data-parsed="Jer_49_2_0_0" data-passage="Jer 49.2" id="Jer.49.2"/><sup>2</sup>Therefore, behold, the days come, saith Jehovah, that I will cause an alarm of war to be heard against Rabbah of the children of Ammon; and it shall become a desolate heap, and her daughters shall be burned with fire: then shall Israel possess them that did possess him, saith Jehovah. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.49.3" data-parsed="Jer_49_3_0_0" data-passage="Jer 49.3" id="Jer.49.3"/><sup>3</sup>Wail, O Heshbon, for Ai is laid waste; cry, ye daughters of Rabbah, gird you with sackcloth: lament, and run to and fro among the fences;
for Malcam shall go into captivity, his priests and his princes together.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.49.4" data-parsed="Jer_49_4_0_0" data-passage="Jer 49.4" id="Jer.49.4"/><sup>4</sup>Wherefore gloriest thou in the valleys, thy flowing valley, O backsliding daughter? that trusted in her treasures, <i>saying</i>, Who shall come unto me? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.49.5" data-parsed="Jer_49_5_0_0" data-passage="Jer 49.5" id="Jer.49.5"/><sup>5</sup>Behold, I will bring a fear upon thee, saith the Lord, Jehovah of hosts, from all that are round about thee; and ye shall be driven out every man right forth, and there shall be none to gather together the fugitives. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.49.6" data-parsed="Jer_49_6_0_0" data-passage="Jer 49.6" id="Jer.49.6"/><sup>6</sup>But afterward I will bring back the captivity of the children of Ammon, saith Jehovah. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.49.7" data-parsed="Jer_49_7_0_0" data-passage="Jer 49.7" id="Jer.49.7"/><sup>7</sup>Of Edom. Thus saith Jehovah of hosts:
Is wisdom no more in Teman? is counsel perished from the prudent? is their wisdom vanished? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.49.8" data-parsed="Jer_49_8_0_0" data-passage="Jer 49.8" id="Jer.49.8"/><sup>8</sup>Flee ye, turn back, dwell in the depths, O inhabitants of Dedan; for I will bring the calamity of Esau upon him, the time that I shall visit him. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.49.9" data-parsed="Jer_49_9_0_0" data-passage="Jer 49.9" id="Jer.49.9"/><sup>9</sup>If grape-gatherers came to thee, would they not leave some gleaning grapes? if thieves by night, would they not destroy till they had enough? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.49.10" data-parsed="Jer_49_10_0_0" data-passage="Jer 49.10" id="Jer.49.10"/><sup>10</sup>But I have made Esau bare, I have uncovered his secret places, and he shall not be able to hide himself: his seed is destroyed, and his brethren, and his neighbors; and he is not. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.49.11" data-parsed="Jer_49_11_0_0" data-passage="Jer 49.11" id="Jer.49.11"/><sup>11</sup>Leave thy fatherless children, I will preserve them alive; and let thy widows trust in me.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.49.12" data-parsed="Jer_49_12_0_0" data-passage="Jer 49.12" id="Jer.49.12"/><sup>12</sup>For thus saith Jehovah: Behold, they to whom it pertained not to drink of the cup shall assuredly drink; and art thou he that shall altogether go unpunished? thou shalt not go unpunished, but thou shalt surely drink.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.49.13" data-parsed="Jer_49_13_0_0" data-passage="Jer 49.13" id="Jer.49.13"/><sup>13</sup>For I have sworn by myself, saith Jehovah, that Bozrah shall become an astonishment, a reproach, a waste, and a curse; and all the cities thereof shall be perpetual wastes. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.49.14" data-parsed="Jer_49_14_0_0" data-passage="Jer 49.14" id="Jer.49.14"/><sup>14</sup>I have heard tidings from Jehovah, and an ambassador is sent among the nations, <i>saying</i>, Gather yourselves together, and come against her, and rise up to the battle. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.49.15" data-parsed="Jer_49_15_0_0" data-passage="Jer 49.15" id="Jer.49.15"/><sup>15</sup>For, behold,
I have made thee small among the nations, and despised among men. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.49.16" data-parsed="Jer_49_16_0_0" data-passage="Jer 49.16" id="Jer.49.16"/><sup>16</sup>As for thy terribleness, the pride of thy heart hath deceived thee, O thou that dwellest in the clefts of the rock, that holdest the height of the hill:
though thou shouldest make thy nest as high as the eagle, I will bring thee down from thence, saith Jehovah. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.49.17" data-parsed="Jer_49_17_0_0" data-passage="Jer 49.17" id="Jer.49.17"/><sup>17</sup>And Edom shall become an astonishment:
every one that passeth by it shall be astonished, and shall hiss at all the plagues thereof. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.49.18" data-parsed="Jer_49_18_0_0" data-passage="Jer 49.18" id="Jer.49.18"/><sup>18</sup>As in the overthrow of Sodom and Gomorrah and the neighbor cities thereof, saith Jehovah, no man shall dwell there, neither shall any son of man sojourn therein. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.49.19" data-parsed="Jer_49_19_0_0" data-passage="Jer 49.19" id="Jer.49.19"/><sup>19</sup>Behold, he shall come up like a lion from the pride of the Jordan against the strong habitation: for I will suddenly make them run away from it; and whoso is chosen, him will I appoint over it: for who is like me? and who will appoint me a time? and who is the shepherd that will stand before me? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.49.20" data-parsed="Jer_49_20_0_0" data-passage="Jer 49.20" id="Jer.49.20"/><sup>20</sup>Therefore hear ye the counsel of Jehovah, that he hath taken against Edom; and his purposes, that he hath purposed against the inhabitants of Teman: Surely they shall drag them away,
<i>even</i> the little ones of the flock; surely he shall make their habitation desolate over them. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.49.21" data-parsed="Jer_49_21_0_0" data-passage="Jer 49.21" id="Jer.49.21"/><sup>21</sup>The earth trembleth at the noise of their fall; there is a cry, the noise whereof is heard in the Red Sea.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.49.22" data-parsed="Jer_49_22_0_0" data-passage="Jer 49.22" id="Jer.49.22"/><sup>22</sup>Behold, he shall come up and fly as the eagle, and spread out his wings against Bozrah: and the heart of the mighty men of Edom at that day shall be as the heart of a woman in her pangs. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.49.23" data-parsed="Jer_49_23_0_0" data-passage="Jer 49.23" id="Jer.49.23"/><sup>23</sup>Of Damascus. Hamath is confounded, and Arpad; for they have heard evil tidings, they are melted away: there is sorrow on the sea; it cannot be quiet. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.49.24" data-parsed="Jer_49_24_0_0" data-passage="Jer 49.24" id="Jer.49.24"/><sup>24</sup>Damascus is waxed feeble, she turneth herself to flee, and trembling hath seized on her:
anguish and sorrows have taken hold of her, as of a woman in travail.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.49.25" data-parsed="Jer_49_25_0_0" data-passage="Jer 49.25" id="Jer.49.25"/><sup>25</sup>How is the city of praise not forsaken, the city of my joy?

<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.49.26" data-parsed="Jer_49_26_0_0" data-passage="Jer 49.26" id="Jer.49.26"/><sup>26</sup>Therefore her young men shall fall in her streets, and all the men of war shall be brought to silence in that day, saith Jehovah of hosts.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.49.27" data-parsed="Jer_49_27_0_0" data-passage="Jer 49.27" id="Jer.49.27"/><sup>27</sup>And I will kindle a fire in the wall of Damascus, and it shall devour the palaces of Ben-hadad. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.49.28" data-parsed="Jer_49_28_0_0" data-passage="Jer 49.28" id="Jer.49.28"/><sup>28</sup>Of Kedar, and of the kingdoms of Hazor, which Nebuchadrezzar king of Babylon smote. Thus saith Jehovah: Arise ye, go up to Kedar, and destroy the children of the east. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.49.29" data-parsed="Jer_49_29_0_0" data-passage="Jer 49.29" id="Jer.49.29"/><sup>29</sup>Their tents and their flocks shall they take; they shall carry away for themselves their curtains,
and all their vessels, and their camels; and they shall cry unto them, Terror on every side! 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.49.30" data-parsed="Jer_49_30_0_0" data-passage="Jer 49.30" id="Jer.49.30"/><sup>30</sup>Flee ye, wander far off, dwell in the depths, O ye inhabitants of Hazor, saith Jehovah; for Nebuchadrezzar king of Babylon hath taken counsel against you, and hath conceived a purpose against you.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.49.31" data-parsed="Jer_49_31_0_0" data-passage="Jer 49.31" id="Jer.49.31"/><sup>31</sup>Arise, get you up unto a nation that is at ease, that dwelleth without care, saith Jehovah; that have neither gates nor bars, that dwell alone.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.49.32" data-parsed="Jer_49_32_0_0" data-passage="Jer 49.32" id="Jer.49.32"/><sup>32</sup>And their camels shall be a booty, and the multitude of their cattle a spoil: and I will scatter unto all winds them that have the corners <i>of their hair</i> cut off; and I will bring their calamity from every side of them, saith Jehovah. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.49.33" data-parsed="Jer_49_33_0_0" data-passage="Jer 49.33" id="Jer.49.33"/><sup>33</sup>And Hazor shall be a dwelling-place of jackals, a desolation for ever: no man shall dwell there, neither shall any son of man sojourn therein. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.49.34" data-parsed="Jer_49_34_0_0" data-passage="Jer 49.34" id="Jer.49.34"/><sup>34</sup>The word of Jehovah that came to Jeremiah the prophet concerning Elam, in the beginning of the reign of Zedekiah king of Judah,
saying, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.49.35" data-parsed="Jer_49_35_0_0" data-passage="Jer 49.35" id="Jer.49.35"/><sup>35</sup>Thus saith Jehovah of hosts: Behold, I will break the bow of Elam, the chief of their might. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.49.36" data-parsed="Jer_49_36_0_0" data-passage="Jer 49.36" id="Jer.49.36"/><sup>36</sup>And upon Elam will I bring the four winds from the four quarters of heaven, and will scatter them toward all those winds; and there shall be no nation whither the outcasts of Elam shall not come. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.49.37" data-parsed="Jer_49_37_0_0" data-passage="Jer 49.37" id="Jer.49.37"/><sup>37</sup>And I will cause Elam to be dismayed before their enemies,
and before them that seek their life; and I will bring evil upon them, even my fierce anger, saith Jehovah; and I will send the sword after them, till I have consumed them; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.49.38" data-parsed="Jer_49_38_0_0" data-passage="Jer 49.38" id="Jer.49.38"/><sup>38</sup>and I will set my throne in Elam, and will destroy from thence king and princes, saith Jehovah. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.49.39" data-parsed="Jer_49_39_0_0" data-passage="Jer 49.39" id="Jer.49.39"/><sup>39</sup>But it shall come to pass in the latter days, that I will bring back the captivity of Elam, saith Jehovah.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>