<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Jeremiah 44</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Jeremiah 44</span></div><div data-next="Jer.45" data-prev="Jer.43" data-progress="65.68%" data-shorttitle="" id="Jer.44" title="Jeremiah 44">
<h2 id="Jer.44-p0.1">44</h2>
<p id="Jer.44-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.44.1" data-parsed="Jer_44_1_0_0" data-passage="Jer 44.1" id="Jer.44.1"/><sup>1</sup>The word that came to Jeremiah concerning all the Jews that dwelt in the land of Egypt, that dwelt at Migdol, and at Tahpanhes, and at Memphis,
and in the country of Pathros, saying, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.44.2" data-parsed="Jer_44_2_0_0" data-passage="Jer 44.2" id="Jer.44.2"/><sup>2</sup>Thus saith Jehovah of hosts, the God of Israel: Ye have seen all the evil that I have brought upon Jerusalem,
and upon all the cities of Judah; and, behold, this day they are a desolation, and no man dwelleth therein, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.44.3" data-parsed="Jer_44_3_0_0" data-passage="Jer 44.3" id="Jer.44.3"/><sup>3</sup>because of their wickedness which they have committed to provoke me to anger, in that they went to burn incense, <i>and</i> to serve other gods, that they knew not, neither they,
nor ye, nor your fathers. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.44.4" data-parsed="Jer_44_4_0_0" data-passage="Jer 44.4" id="Jer.44.4"/><sup>4</sup>Howbeit I sent unto you all my servants the prophets, rising up early and sending them, saying, Oh, do not this abominable thing that I hate. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.44.5" data-parsed="Jer_44_5_0_0" data-passage="Jer 44.5" id="Jer.44.5"/><sup>5</sup>But they hearkened not, nor inclined their ear to turn from their wickedness, to burn no incense unto other gods.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.44.6" data-parsed="Jer_44_6_0_0" data-passage="Jer 44.6" id="Jer.44.6"/><sup>6</sup>Wherefore my wrath and mine anger was poured forth, and was kindled in the cities of Judah and in the streets of Jerusalem; and they are wasted and desolate, as it is this day. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.44.7" data-parsed="Jer_44_7_0_0" data-passage="Jer 44.7" id="Jer.44.7"/><sup>7</sup>Therefore now thus saith Jehovah, the God of hosts, the God of Israel: Wherefore commit ye <i>this</i> great evil against your own souls, to cut off from you man and woman, infant and suckling, out of the midst of Judah, to leave you none remaining; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.44.8" data-parsed="Jer_44_8_0_0" data-passage="Jer 44.8" id="Jer.44.8"/><sup>8</sup>in that ye provoke me unto anger with the works of your hands, burning incense unto other gods in the land of Egypt, whither ye are gone to sojourn; that ye may be cut off, and that ye may be a curse and a reproach among all the nations of the earth? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.44.9" data-parsed="Jer_44_9_0_0" data-passage="Jer 44.9" id="Jer.44.9"/><sup>9</sup>Have ye forgotten the wickedness of your fathers,
and the wickedness of the kings of Judah, and the wickedness of their wives,
and your own wickedness, and the wickedness of your wives which they committed in the land of Judah, and in the streets of Jerusalem? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.44.10" data-parsed="Jer_44_10_0_0" data-passage="Jer 44.10" id="Jer.44.10"/><sup>10</sup>They are not humbled even unto this day, neither have they feared, nor walked in my law, nor in my statutes, that I set before you and before your fathers.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.44.11" data-parsed="Jer_44_11_0_0" data-passage="Jer 44.11" id="Jer.44.11"/><sup>11</sup>Therefore thus saith Jehovah of hosts, the God of Israel: Behold, I will set my face against you for evil, even to cut off all Judah. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.44.12" data-parsed="Jer_44_12_0_0" data-passage="Jer 44.12" id="Jer.44.12"/><sup>12</sup>And I will take the remnant of Judah, that have set their faces to go into the land of Egypt to sojourn there, and they shall all be consumed; in the land of Egypt shall they fall; they shall be consumed by the sword and by the famine;
they shall die, from the least even unto the greatest, by the sword and by the famine; and they shall be an execration, <i>and</i> an astonishment, and a curse, and a reproach. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.44.13" data-parsed="Jer_44_13_0_0" data-passage="Jer 44.13" id="Jer.44.13"/><sup>13</sup>For I will punish them that dwell in the land of Egypt, as I have punished Jerusalem, by the sword, by the famine, and by the pestilence; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.44.14" data-parsed="Jer_44_14_0_0" data-passage="Jer 44.14" id="Jer.44.14"/><sup>14</sup>so that none of the remnant of Judah, that are gone into the land of Egypt to sojourn there, shall escape or be left, to return into the land of Judah, to which they have a desire to return to dwell there:
for none shall return save such as shall escape. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.44.15" data-parsed="Jer_44_15_0_0" data-passage="Jer 44.15" id="Jer.44.15"/><sup>15</sup>Then all the men who knew that their wives burned incense unto other gods, and all the women that stood by, a great assembly, even all the people that dwelt in the land of Egypt, in Pathros, answered Jeremiah, saying, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.44.16" data-parsed="Jer_44_16_0_0" data-passage="Jer 44.16" id="Jer.44.16"/><sup>16</sup>As for the word that thou hast spoken unto us in the name of Jehovah, we will not hearken unto thee.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.44.17" data-parsed="Jer_44_17_0_0" data-passage="Jer 44.17" id="Jer.44.17"/><sup>17</sup>But we will certainly perform every word that is gone forth out of our mouth, to burn incense unto the queen of heaven, and to pour out drink-offerings unto her, as we have done, we and our fathers, our kings and our princes, in the cities of Judah, and in the streets of Jerusalem; for then had we plenty of victuals, and were well, and saw no evil. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.44.18" data-parsed="Jer_44_18_0_0" data-passage="Jer 44.18" id="Jer.44.18"/><sup>18</sup>But since we left off burning incense to the queen of heaven, and pouring out drink-offerings unto her, we have wanted all things, and have been consumed by the sword and by the famine. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.44.19" data-parsed="Jer_44_19_0_0" data-passage="Jer 44.19" id="Jer.44.19"/><sup>19</sup>And when we burned incense to the queen of heaven, and poured out drink-offerings unto her, did we make her cakes to worship her, and pour out drink-offerings unto her, without our husbands?

<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.44.20" data-parsed="Jer_44_20_0_0" data-passage="Jer 44.20" id="Jer.44.20"/><sup>20</sup>Then Jeremiah said unto all the people, to the men, and to the women,
even to all the people that had given him that answer, saying, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.44.21" data-parsed="Jer_44_21_0_0" data-passage="Jer 44.21" id="Jer.44.21"/><sup>21</sup>The incense that ye burned in the cities of Judah, and in the streets of Jerusalem, ye and your fathers, your kings and your princes, and the people of the land, did not Jehovah remember them, and came it not into his mind?

<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.44.22" data-parsed="Jer_44_22_0_0" data-passage="Jer 44.22" id="Jer.44.22"/><sup>22</sup>so that Jehovah could not longer bear, because of the evil of your doings, and because of the abominations which ye have committed; therefore is your land become a desolation, and an astonishment, and a curse, without inhabitant, as it is this day. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.44.23" data-parsed="Jer_44_23_0_0" data-passage="Jer 44.23" id="Jer.44.23"/><sup>23</sup>Because ye have burned incense, and because ye have sinned against Jehovah, and have not obeyed the voice of Jehovah, nor walked in his law, nor in his statutes, nor in his testimonies;
therefore this evil is happened unto you, as it is this day. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.44.24" data-parsed="Jer_44_24_0_0" data-passage="Jer 44.24" id="Jer.44.24"/><sup>24</sup>Moreover Jeremiah said unto all the people, and to all the women, Hear the word of Jehovah, all Judah that are in the land of Egypt: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.44.25" data-parsed="Jer_44_25_0_0" data-passage="Jer 44.25" id="Jer.44.25"/><sup>25</sup>Thus saith Jehovah of hosts, the God of Israel, saying, Ye and your wives have both spoken with your mouths, and with your hands have fulfilled it, saying, We will surely perform our vows that we have vowed, to burn incense to the queen of heaven,
and to pour out drink-offerings unto her: establish then your vows, and perform your vows. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.44.26" data-parsed="Jer_44_26_0_0" data-passage="Jer 44.26" id="Jer.44.26"/><sup>26</sup>Therefore hear ye the word of Jehovah, all Judah that dwell in the land of Egypt: Behold, I have sworn by my great name, saith Jehovah, that my name shall no more be named in the mouth of any man of Judah in all the land of Egypt, saying, As the Lord Jehovah liveth. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.44.27" data-parsed="Jer_44_27_0_0" data-passage="Jer 44.27" id="Jer.44.27"/><sup>27</sup>Behold, I watch over them for evil, and not for good; and all the men of Judah that are in the land of Egypt shall be consumed by the sword and by the famine, until there be an end of them. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.44.28" data-parsed="Jer_44_28_0_0" data-passage="Jer 44.28" id="Jer.44.28"/><sup>28</sup>And they that escape the sword shall return out of the land of Egypt into the land of Judah, few in number; and all the remnant of Judah, that are gone into the land of Egypt to sojourn there,
shall know whose word shall stand, mine, or theirs. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.44.29" data-parsed="Jer_44_29_0_0" data-passage="Jer 44.29" id="Jer.44.29"/><sup>29</sup>And this shall be the sign unto you, saith Jehovah, that I will punish you in this place, that ye may know that my words shall surely stand against you for evil: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.44.30" data-parsed="Jer_44_30_0_0" data-passage="Jer 44.30" id="Jer.44.30"/><sup>30</sup>Thus saith Jehovah, Behold, I will give Pharaoh Hophra king of Egypt into the hand of his enemies, and into the hand of them that seek his life; as I gave Zedekiah king of Judah into the hand of Nebuchadrezzar king of Babylon, who was his enemy, and sought his life.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>