<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Jeremiah 4</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Jeremiah 4</span></div><div data-next="Jer.5" data-prev="Jer.3" data-progress="61.82%" data-shorttitle="" id="Jer.4" title="Jeremiah 4">
<h2 id="Jer.4-p0.1">4</h2>
<p id="Jer.4-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.4.1" data-parsed="Jer_4_1_0_0" data-passage="Jer 4.1" id="Jer.4.1"/><sup>1</sup>If thou wilt return, O Israel, saith Jehovah, if thou wilt return unto me, and if thou wilt put away thine abominations out of my sight; then shalt thou not be removed; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.4.2" data-parsed="Jer_4_2_0_0" data-passage="Jer 4.2" id="Jer.4.2"/><sup>2</sup>and thou shalt swear, As Jehovah liveth, in truth,
in justice, and in righteousness; and the nations shall bless themselves in him, and in him shall they glory. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.4.3" data-parsed="Jer_4_3_0_0" data-passage="Jer 4.3" id="Jer.4.3"/><sup>3</sup>For thus saith Jehovah to the men of Judah and to Jerusalem, Break up your fallow ground, and sow not among thorns. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.4.4" data-parsed="Jer_4_4_0_0" data-passage="Jer 4.4" id="Jer.4.4"/><sup>4</sup>Circumcise yourselves to Jehovah, and take away the foreskins of your heart, ye men of Judah and inhabitants of Jerusalem; lest my wrath go forth like fire, and burn so that none can quench it, because of the evil of your doings. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.4.5" data-parsed="Jer_4_5_0_0" data-passage="Jer 4.5" id="Jer.4.5"/><sup>5</sup>Declare ye in Judah, and publish in Jerusalem; and say,
Blow ye the trumpet in the land: cry aloud and say, Assemble yourselves, and let us go into the fortified cities. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.4.6" data-parsed="Jer_4_6_0_0" data-passage="Jer 4.6" id="Jer.4.6"/><sup>6</sup>Set up a standard toward Zion: flee for safety, stay not; for I will bring evil from the north, and a great destruction. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.4.7" data-parsed="Jer_4_7_0_0" data-passage="Jer 4.7" id="Jer.4.7"/><sup>7</sup>A lion is gone up from his thicket, and a destroyer of nations; he is on his way, he is gone forth from his place, to make thy land desolate, that thy cities be laid waste, without inhabitant. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.4.8" data-parsed="Jer_4_8_0_0" data-passage="Jer 4.8" id="Jer.4.8"/><sup>8</sup>For this gird you with sackcloth, lament and wail; for the fierce anger of Jehovah is not turned back from us. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.4.9" data-parsed="Jer_4_9_0_0" data-passage="Jer 4.9" id="Jer.4.9"/><sup>9</sup>And it shall come to pass at that day, saith Jehovah, that the heart of the king shall perish, and the heart of the princes; and the priests shall be astonished, and the prophets shall wonder.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.4.10" data-parsed="Jer_4_10_0_0" data-passage="Jer 4.10" id="Jer.4.10"/><sup>10</sup>Then said I, Ah, Lord Jehovah! surely thou hast greatly deceived this people and Jerusalem, saying, Ye shall have peace; whereas the sword reacheth unto the life. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.4.11" data-parsed="Jer_4_11_0_0" data-passage="Jer 4.11" id="Jer.4.11"/><sup>11</sup>At that time shall it be said to this people and to Jerusalem, A hot wind from the bare heights in the wilderness toward the daughter of my people, not to winnow, nor to cleanse; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.4.12" data-parsed="Jer_4_12_0_0" data-passage="Jer 4.12" id="Jer.4.12"/><sup>12</sup>a full wind from these shall come for me: now will I also utter judgments against them.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.4.13" data-parsed="Jer_4_13_0_0" data-passage="Jer 4.13" id="Jer.4.13"/><sup>13</sup>Behold, he shall come up as clouds, and his chariots <i>shall be</i>
as the whirlwind: his horses are swifter than eagles. Woe unto us! for we are ruined. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.4.14" data-parsed="Jer_4_14_0_0" data-passage="Jer 4.14" id="Jer.4.14"/><sup>14</sup>O Jerusalem, wash thy heart from wickedness, that thou mayest be saved. How long shall thine evil thoughts lodge within thee? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.4.15" data-parsed="Jer_4_15_0_0" data-passage="Jer 4.15" id="Jer.4.15"/><sup>15</sup>For a voice declareth from Dan, and publisheth evil from the hills of Ephraim:

<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.4.16" data-parsed="Jer_4_16_0_0" data-passage="Jer 4.16" id="Jer.4.16"/><sup>16</sup>make ye mention to the nations; behold, publish against Jerusalem,
<i>that</i> watchers come from a far country, and give out their voice against the cities of Judah. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.4.17" data-parsed="Jer_4_17_0_0" data-passage="Jer 4.17" id="Jer.4.17"/><sup>17</sup>As keepers of a field are they against her round about, because she hath been rebellious against me, saith Jehovah.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.4.18" data-parsed="Jer_4_18_0_0" data-passage="Jer 4.18" id="Jer.4.18"/><sup>18</sup>Thy way and thy doings have procured these things unto thee; this is thy wickedness; for it is bitter, for it reacheth unto thy heart. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.4.19" data-parsed="Jer_4_19_0_0" data-passage="Jer 4.19" id="Jer.4.19"/><sup>19</sup>My anguish, my anguish! I am pained at my very heart; my heart is disquieted in me; I cannot hold my peace; because thou hast heard, O my soul, the sound of the trumpet, the alarm of war. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.4.20" data-parsed="Jer_4_20_0_0" data-passage="Jer 4.20" id="Jer.4.20"/><sup>20</sup>Destruction upon destruction is cried;
for the whole land is laid waste: suddenly are my tents destroyed,
<i>and</i> my curtains in a moment. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.4.21" data-parsed="Jer_4_21_0_0" data-passage="Jer 4.21" id="Jer.4.21"/><sup>21</sup>How long shall I see the standard,
and hear the sound of the trumpet? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.4.22" data-parsed="Jer_4_22_0_0" data-passage="Jer 4.22" id="Jer.4.22"/><sup>22</sup>For my people are foolish, they know me not; they are sottish children, and they have no understanding; they are wise to do evil, but to do good they have no knowledge. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.4.23" data-parsed="Jer_4_23_0_0" data-passage="Jer 4.23" id="Jer.4.23"/><sup>23</sup>I beheld the earth, and, lo, it was waste and void; and the heavens, and they had no light. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.4.24" data-parsed="Jer_4_24_0_0" data-passage="Jer 4.24" id="Jer.4.24"/><sup>24</sup>I beheld the mountains, and, lo, they trembled, and all the hills moved to and fro. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.4.25" data-parsed="Jer_4_25_0_0" data-passage="Jer 4.25" id="Jer.4.25"/><sup>25</sup>I beheld, and, lo, there was no man, and all the birds of the heavens were fled. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.4.26" data-parsed="Jer_4_26_0_0" data-passage="Jer 4.26" id="Jer.4.26"/><sup>26</sup>I beheld, and, lo, the fruitful field was a wilderness, and all the cities thereof were broken down at the presence of Jehovah, <i>and</i> before his fierce anger. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.4.27" data-parsed="Jer_4_27_0_0" data-passage="Jer 4.27" id="Jer.4.27"/><sup>27</sup>For thus saith Jehovah, The whole land shall be a desolation; yet will I not make a full end. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.4.28" data-parsed="Jer_4_28_0_0" data-passage="Jer 4.28" id="Jer.4.28"/><sup>28</sup>For this shall the earth mourn, and the heavens above be black; because I have spoken it, I have purposed it, and I have not repented,
neither will I turn back from it. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.4.29" data-parsed="Jer_4_29_0_0" data-passage="Jer 4.29" id="Jer.4.29"/><sup>29</sup>Every city fleeth for the noise of the horsemen and bowmen; they go into the thickets, and climb up upon the rocks: every city is forsaken, and not a man dwelleth therein. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.4.30" data-parsed="Jer_4_30_0_0" data-passage="Jer 4.30" id="Jer.4.30"/><sup>30</sup>And thou, when thou art made desolate, what wilt thou do? Though thou clothest thyself with scarlet, though thou deckest thee with ornaments of gold, though thou enlargest thine eyes with paint, in vain dost thou make thyself fair;
<i>thy</i> lovers despise thee, they seek thy life. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.4.31" data-parsed="Jer_4_31_0_0" data-passage="Jer 4.31" id="Jer.4.31"/><sup>31</sup>For I have heard a voice as of a woman in travail, the anguish as of her that bringeth forth her first child, the voice of the daughter of Zion, that gaspeth for breath, that spreadeth her hands, <i>saying</i>, Woe is me now! for my soul fainteth before the murderers.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>