<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Jeremiah 50</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Jeremiah 50</span></div><div data-next="Jer.51" data-prev="Jer.49" data-progress="66.28%" data-shorttitle="" id="Jer.50" title="Jeremiah 50">
<h2 id="Jer.50-p0.1">50</h2>
<p id="Jer.50-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.50.1" data-parsed="Jer_50_1_0_0" data-passage="Jer 50.1" id="Jer.50.1"/><sup>1</sup>The word that Jehovah spake concerning Babylon, concerning the land of the Chaldeans, by Jeremiah the prophet. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.50.2" data-parsed="Jer_50_2_0_0" data-passage="Jer 50.2" id="Jer.50.2"/><sup>2</sup>Declare ye among the nations and publish, and set up a standard; publish, and conceal not: say,
Babylon is taken, Bel is put to shame, Merodach is dismayed; her images are put to shame, her idols are dismayed. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.50.3" data-parsed="Jer_50_3_0_0" data-passage="Jer 50.3" id="Jer.50.3"/><sup>3</sup>For out of the north there cometh up a nation against her, which shall make her land desolate, and none shall dwell therein: they are fled, they are gone, both man and beast. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.50.4" data-parsed="Jer_50_4_0_0" data-passage="Jer 50.4" id="Jer.50.4"/><sup>4</sup>In those days, and in that time, saith Jehovah, the children of Israel shall come, they and the children of Judah together; they shall go on their way weeping, and shall seek Jehovah their God. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.50.5" data-parsed="Jer_50_5_0_0" data-passage="Jer 50.5" id="Jer.50.5"/><sup>5</sup>They shall inquire concerning Zion with their faces thitherward, <i>saying</i>, Come ye, and join yourselves to Jehovah in an everlasting covenant that shall not be forgotten.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.50.6" data-parsed="Jer_50_6_0_0" data-passage="Jer 50.6" id="Jer.50.6"/><sup>6</sup>My people have been lost sheep: their shepherds have caused them to go astray; they have turned them away on the mountains; they have gone from mountain to hill; they have forgotten their resting-place. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.50.7" data-parsed="Jer_50_7_0_0" data-passage="Jer 50.7" id="Jer.50.7"/><sup>7</sup>All that found them have devoured them; and their adversaries said, We are not guilty,
because they have sinned against Jehovah, the habitation of righteousness,
even Jehovah, the hope of their fathers. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.50.8" data-parsed="Jer_50_8_0_0" data-passage="Jer 50.8" id="Jer.50.8"/><sup>8</sup>Flee out of the midst of Babylon, and go forth out of the land of the Chaldeans, and be as the he-goats before the flocks. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.50.9" data-parsed="Jer_50_9_0_0" data-passage="Jer 50.9" id="Jer.50.9"/><sup>9</sup>For, lo, I will stir up and cause to come up against Babylon a company of great nations from the north country; and they shall set themselves in array against her; from thence she shall be taken:
their arrows shall be as of an expert mighty man; none shall return in vain.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.50.10" data-parsed="Jer_50_10_0_0" data-passage="Jer 50.10" id="Jer.50.10"/><sup>10</sup>And Chaldea shall be a prey: all that prey upon her shall be satisfied,
saith Jehovah. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.50.11" data-parsed="Jer_50_11_0_0" data-passage="Jer 50.11" id="Jer.50.11"/><sup>11</sup>Because ye are glad, because ye rejoice, O ye that plunder my heritage, because ye are wanton as a heifer that treadeth out <i>the grain</i>, and neigh as strong horses; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.50.12" data-parsed="Jer_50_12_0_0" data-passage="Jer 50.12" id="Jer.50.12"/><sup>12</sup>your mother shall be utterly put to shame; she that bare you shall be confounded: behold, she shall be the hindermost of the nations, a wilderness, a dry land, and a desert. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.50.13" data-parsed="Jer_50_13_0_0" data-passage="Jer 50.13" id="Jer.50.13"/><sup>13</sup>Because of the wrath of Jehovah she shall not be inhabited, but she shall be wholly desolate: every one that goeth by Babylon shall be astonished, and hiss at all her plagues. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.50.14" data-parsed="Jer_50_14_0_0" data-passage="Jer 50.14" id="Jer.50.14"/><sup>14</sup>Set yourselves in array against Babylon round about, all ye that bend the bow; shoot at her, spare no arrows: for she hath sinned against Jehovah. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.50.15" data-parsed="Jer_50_15_0_0" data-passage="Jer 50.15" id="Jer.50.15"/><sup>15</sup>Shout against her round about: she hath submitted herself; her bulwarks are fallen, her walls are thrown down; for it is the vengeance of Jehovah: take vengeance upon her; as she hath done, do unto her. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.50.16" data-parsed="Jer_50_16_0_0" data-passage="Jer 50.16" id="Jer.50.16"/><sup>16</sup>Cut off the sower from Babylon, and him that handleth the sickle in the time of harvest: for fear of the oppressing sword they shall turn every one to his people, and they shall flee every one to his own land. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.50.17" data-parsed="Jer_50_17_0_0" data-passage="Jer 50.17" id="Jer.50.17"/><sup>17</sup>Israel is a hunted sheep; the lions have driven him away: first, the king of Assyria devoured him; and now at last Nebuchadrezzar king of Babylon hath broken his bones. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.50.18" data-parsed="Jer_50_18_0_0" data-passage="Jer 50.18" id="Jer.50.18"/><sup>18</sup>Therefore thus saith Jehovah of hosts, the God of Israel: Behold, I will punish the king of Babylon and his land, as I have punished the king of Assyria. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.50.19" data-parsed="Jer_50_19_0_0" data-passage="Jer 50.19" id="Jer.50.19"/><sup>19</sup>And I will bring Israel again to his pasture, and he shall feed on Carmel and Bashan, and his soul shall be satisfied upon the hills of Ephraim and in Gilead. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.50.20" data-parsed="Jer_50_20_0_0" data-passage="Jer 50.20" id="Jer.50.20"/><sup>20</sup>In those days, and in that time, saith Jehovah, the iniquity of Israel shall be sought for, and there shall be none; and the sins of Judah, and they shall not be found: for I will pardon them whom I leave as a remnant. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.50.21" data-parsed="Jer_50_21_0_0" data-passage="Jer 50.21" id="Jer.50.21"/><sup>21</sup>Go up against the land of Merathaim, even against it, and against the inhabitants of Pekod:
slay and utterly destroy after them, saith Jehovah, and do according to all that I have commanded thee. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.50.22" data-parsed="Jer_50_22_0_0" data-passage="Jer 50.22" id="Jer.50.22"/><sup>22</sup>A sound of battle is in the land, and of great destruction. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.50.23" data-parsed="Jer_50_23_0_0" data-passage="Jer 50.23" id="Jer.50.23"/><sup>23</sup>How is the hammer of the whole earth cut asunder and broken! how is Babylon become a desolation among the nations! 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.50.24" data-parsed="Jer_50_24_0_0" data-passage="Jer 50.24" id="Jer.50.24"/><sup>24</sup>I have laid a snare for thee, and thou art also taken, O Babylon, and thou wast not aware: thou art found, and also caught, because thou hast striven against Jehovah. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.50.25" data-parsed="Jer_50_25_0_0" data-passage="Jer 50.25" id="Jer.50.25"/><sup>25</sup>Jehovah hath opened his armory, and hath brought forth the weapons of his indignation; for the Lord, Jehovah of hosts, hath a work <i>to do</i> in the land of the Chaldeans. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.50.26" data-parsed="Jer_50_26_0_0" data-passage="Jer 50.26" id="Jer.50.26"/><sup>26</sup>Come against her from the utmost border; open her store-houses; cast her up as heaps, and destroy her utterly; let nothing of her be left. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.50.27" data-parsed="Jer_50_27_0_0" data-passage="Jer 50.27" id="Jer.50.27"/><sup>27</sup>Slay all her bullocks; let them go down to the slaughter: woe unto them! for their day is come, the time of their visitation. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.50.28" data-parsed="Jer_50_28_0_0" data-passage="Jer 50.28" id="Jer.50.28"/><sup>28</sup>The voice of them that flee and escape out of the land of Babylon, to declare in Zion the vengeance of Jehovah our God, the vengeance of his temple. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.50.29" data-parsed="Jer_50_29_0_0" data-passage="Jer 50.29" id="Jer.50.29"/><sup>29</sup>Call together the archers against Babylon, all them that bend the bow; encamp against her round about; let none thereof escape: recompense her according to her work; according to all that she hath done, do unto her; for she hath been proud against Jehovah, against the Holy One of Israel. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.50.30" data-parsed="Jer_50_30_0_0" data-passage="Jer 50.30" id="Jer.50.30"/><sup>30</sup>Therefore shall her young men fall in her streets, and all her men of war shall be brought to silence in that day, saith Jehovah.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.50.31" data-parsed="Jer_50_31_0_0" data-passage="Jer 50.31" id="Jer.50.31"/><sup>31</sup>Behold, I am against thee, O thou proud one, saith the Lord, Jehovah of hosts; for thy day is come, the time that I will visit thee. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.50.32" data-parsed="Jer_50_32_0_0" data-passage="Jer 50.32" id="Jer.50.32"/><sup>32</sup>And the proud one shall stumble and fall, and none shall raise him up; and I will kindle a fire in his cities, and it shall devour all that are round about him. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.50.33" data-parsed="Jer_50_33_0_0" data-passage="Jer 50.33" id="Jer.50.33"/><sup>33</sup>Thus saith Jehovah of hosts: The children of Israel and the children of Judah are oppressed together; and all that took them captive hold them fast; they refuse to let them go. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.50.34" data-parsed="Jer_50_34_0_0" data-passage="Jer 50.34" id="Jer.50.34"/><sup>34</sup>Their Redeemer is strong;
Jehovah of hosts is his name: he will thoroughly plead their cause, that he may give rest to the earth, and disquiet the inhabitants of Babylon. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.50.35" data-parsed="Jer_50_35_0_0" data-passage="Jer 50.35" id="Jer.50.35"/><sup>35</sup>A sword is upon the Chaldeans, saith Jehovah, and upon the inhabitants of Babylon, and upon her princes, and upon her wise men. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.50.36" data-parsed="Jer_50_36_0_0" data-passage="Jer 50.36" id="Jer.50.36"/><sup>36</sup>A sword is upon the boasters, and they shall become fools; a sword is upon her mighty men,
and they shall be dismayed. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.50.37" data-parsed="Jer_50_37_0_0" data-passage="Jer 50.37" id="Jer.50.37"/><sup>37</sup>A sword is upon their horses, and upon their chariots, and upon all the mingled people that are in the midst of her;
and they shall become as women: a sword is upon her treasures, and they shall be robbed. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.50.38" data-parsed="Jer_50_38_0_0" data-passage="Jer 50.38" id="Jer.50.38"/><sup>38</sup>A drought is upon her waters, and they shall be dried up;
for it is a land of graven images, and they are mad over idols.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.50.39" data-parsed="Jer_50_39_0_0" data-passage="Jer 50.39" id="Jer.50.39"/><sup>39</sup>Therefore the wild beasts of the desert with the wolves shall dwell there, and the ostriches shall dwell therein: and it shall be no more inhabited for ever; neither shall it be dwelt in from generation to generation. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.50.40" data-parsed="Jer_50_40_0_0" data-passage="Jer 50.40" id="Jer.50.40"/><sup>40</sup>As when God overthrew Sodom and Gomorrah and the neighbor cities thereof, saith Jehovah, so shall no man dwell there, neither shall any son of man sojourn therein. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.50.41" data-parsed="Jer_50_41_0_0" data-passage="Jer 50.41" id="Jer.50.41"/><sup>41</sup>Behold, a people cometh from the north; and a great nation and many kings shall be stirred up from the uttermost parts of the earth. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.50.42" data-parsed="Jer_50_42_0_0" data-passage="Jer 50.42" id="Jer.50.42"/><sup>42</sup>They lay hold on bow and spear; they are cruel, and have no mercy; their voice roareth like the sea; and they ride upon horses, every one set in array, as a man to the battle, against thee, O daughter of Babylon.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.50.43" data-parsed="Jer_50_43_0_0" data-passage="Jer 50.43" id="Jer.50.43"/><sup>43</sup>The king of Babylon hath heard the tidings of them, and his hands wax feeble: anguish hath taken hold of him, <i>and</i> pangs as of a woman in travail. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.50.44" data-parsed="Jer_50_44_0_0" data-passage="Jer 50.44" id="Jer.50.44"/><sup>44</sup>Behold, <i>the enemy</i> shall come up like a lion from the pride of the Jordan against the strong habitation: for I will suddenly make them run away from it; and whoso is chosen, him will I appoint over it: for who is like me? and who will appoint me a time? and who is the shepherd that can stand before me? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.50.45" data-parsed="Jer_50_45_0_0" data-passage="Jer 50.45" id="Jer.50.45"/><sup>45</sup>Therefore hear ye the counsel of Jehovah, that he hath taken against Babylon; and his purposes, that he hath purposed against the land of the Chaldeans: Surely they shall drag them away, <i>even</i> the little ones of the flock; surely he shall make their habitation desolate over them. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.50.46" data-parsed="Jer_50_46_0_0" data-passage="Jer 50.46" id="Jer.50.46"/><sup>46</sup>At the noise of the taking of Babylon the earth trembleth, and the cry is heard among the nations.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>