<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Jeremiah 51</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Jeremiah 51</span></div><div data-next="Jer.52" data-prev="Jer.50" data-progress="66.46%" data-shorttitle="" id="Jer.51" title="Jeremiah 51">
<h2 id="Jer.51-p0.1">51</h2>
<p id="Jer.51-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.51.1" data-parsed="Jer_51_1_0_0" data-passage="Jer 51.1" id="Jer.51.1"/><sup>1</sup>Thus saith Jehovah: Behold, I will raise up against Babylon, and against them that dwell in Leb-kamai, a destroying wind. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.51.2" data-parsed="Jer_51_2_0_0" data-passage="Jer 51.2" id="Jer.51.2"/><sup>2</sup>And I will send unto Babylon strangers, that shall winnow her; and they shall empty her land:
for in the day of trouble they shall be against her round about. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.51.3" data-parsed="Jer_51_3_0_0" data-passage="Jer 51.3" id="Jer.51.3"/><sup>3</sup>Against <i>him that</i> bendeth let the archer bend his bow, and against <i>him that</i> lifteth himself up in his coat of mail: and spare ye not her young men; destroy ye utterly all her host. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.51.4" data-parsed="Jer_51_4_0_0" data-passage="Jer 51.4" id="Jer.51.4"/><sup>4</sup>And they shall fall down slain in the land of the Chaldeans, and thrust through in her streets. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.51.5" data-parsed="Jer_51_5_0_0" data-passage="Jer 51.5" id="Jer.51.5"/><sup>5</sup>For Israel is not forsaken, nor Judah, of his God, of Jehovah of hosts; though their land is full of guilt against the Holy One of Israel. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.51.6" data-parsed="Jer_51_6_0_0" data-passage="Jer 51.6" id="Jer.51.6"/><sup>6</sup>Flee out of the midst of Babylon, and save every man his life; be not cut off in her iniquity: for it is the time of Jehovah's vengeance; he will render unto her a recompense. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.51.7" data-parsed="Jer_51_7_0_0" data-passage="Jer 51.7" id="Jer.51.7"/><sup>7</sup>Babylon hath been a golden cup in Jehovah's hand, that made all the earth drunken: the nations have drunk of her wine; therefore the nations are mad. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.51.8" data-parsed="Jer_51_8_0_0" data-passage="Jer 51.8" id="Jer.51.8"/><sup>8</sup>Babylon is suddenly fallen and destroyed: wail for her;
take balm for her pain, if so be she may be healed. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.51.9" data-parsed="Jer_51_9_0_0" data-passage="Jer 51.9" id="Jer.51.9"/><sup>9</sup>We would have healed Babylon, but she is not healed: forsake her, and let us go every one into his own country; for her judgment reacheth unto heaven, and is lifted up even to the skies. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.51.10" data-parsed="Jer_51_10_0_0" data-passage="Jer 51.10" id="Jer.51.10"/><sup>10</sup>Jehovah hath brought forth our righteousness: come, and let us declare in Zion the work of Jehovah our God. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.51.11" data-parsed="Jer_51_11_0_0" data-passage="Jer 51.11" id="Jer.51.11"/><sup>11</sup>Make sharp the arrows;
hold firm the shields: Jehovah hath stirred up the spirit of the kings of the Medes; because his purpose is against Babylon, to destroy it: for it is the vengeance of Jehovah, the vengeance of his temple. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.51.12" data-parsed="Jer_51_12_0_0" data-passage="Jer 51.12" id="Jer.51.12"/><sup>12</sup>Set up a standard against the walls of Babylon, make the watch strong, set the watchmen,
prepare the ambushes; for Jehovah hath both purposed and done that which he spake concerning the inhabitants of Babylon. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.51.13" data-parsed="Jer_51_13_0_0" data-passage="Jer 51.13" id="Jer.51.13"/><sup>13</sup>O thou that dwellest upon many waters, abundant in treasures, thine end is come, the measure of thy covetousness. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.51.14" data-parsed="Jer_51_14_0_0" data-passage="Jer 51.14" id="Jer.51.14"/><sup>14</sup>Jehovah of hosts hath sworn by himself, <i>saying</i>,
Surely I will fill thee with men, as with the canker-worm; and they shall lift up a shout against thee. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.51.15" data-parsed="Jer_51_15_0_0" data-passage="Jer 51.15" id="Jer.51.15"/><sup>15</sup>He hath made the earth by his power, he hath established the world by his wisdom, and by his understanding hath he stretched out the heavens: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.51.16" data-parsed="Jer_51_16_0_0" data-passage="Jer 51.16" id="Jer.51.16"/><sup>16</sup>when he uttereth his voice, there is a tumult of waters in the heavens, and he causeth the vapors to ascend from the ends of the earth; he maketh lightnings for the rain, and bringeth forth the wind out of his treasuries. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.51.17" data-parsed="Jer_51_17_0_0" data-passage="Jer 51.17" id="Jer.51.17"/><sup>17</sup>Every man is become brutish <i>and is</i>
without knowledge; every goldsmith is put to shame by his image; for his molten image is falsehood, and there is no breath in them. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.51.18" data-parsed="Jer_51_18_0_0" data-passage="Jer 51.18" id="Jer.51.18"/><sup>18</sup>They are vanity, a work of delusion: in the time of their visitation they shall perish. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.51.19" data-parsed="Jer_51_19_0_0" data-passage="Jer 51.19" id="Jer.51.19"/><sup>19</sup>The portion of Jacob is not like these; for he is the former of all things; and <i>Israel</i> is the tribe of his inheritance: Jehovah of hosts is his name. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.51.20" data-parsed="Jer_51_20_0_0" data-passage="Jer 51.20" id="Jer.51.20"/><sup>20</sup>Thou art my battle-axe and weapons of war: and with thee will I break in pieces the nations; and with thee will I destroy kingdoms; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.51.21" data-parsed="Jer_51_21_0_0" data-passage="Jer 51.21" id="Jer.51.21"/><sup>21</sup>and with thee will I break in pieces the horse and his rider;

<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.51.22" data-parsed="Jer_51_22_0_0" data-passage="Jer 51.22" id="Jer.51.22"/><sup>22</sup>and with thee will I break in pieces the chariot and him that rideth therein; and with thee will I break in pieces man and woman; and with thee will I break in pieces the old man and the youth; and with thee will I break in pieces the young man and the virgin; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.51.23" data-parsed="Jer_51_23_0_0" data-passage="Jer 51.23" id="Jer.51.23"/><sup>23</sup>and with thee will I break in pieces the shepherd and his flock; and with thee will I break in pieces the husbandman and his yoke <i>of oxen</i>; and with thee will I break in pieces governors and deputies. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.51.24" data-parsed="Jer_51_24_0_0" data-passage="Jer 51.24" id="Jer.51.24"/><sup>24</sup>And I will render unto Babylon and to all the inhabitants of Chaldea all their evil that they have done in Zion in your sight, saith Jehovah. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.51.25" data-parsed="Jer_51_25_0_0" data-passage="Jer 51.25" id="Jer.51.25"/><sup>25</sup>Behold, I am against thee, O destroying mountain,
saith Jehovah, which destroyest all the earth; and I will stretch out my hand upon thee, and roll thee down from the rocks, and will make thee a burnt mountain. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.51.26" data-parsed="Jer_51_26_0_0" data-passage="Jer 51.26" id="Jer.51.26"/><sup>26</sup>And they shall not take of thee a stone for a corner, nor a stone for foundations; but thou shalt be desolate for ever, saith Jehovah.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.51.27" data-parsed="Jer_51_27_0_0" data-passage="Jer 51.27" id="Jer.51.27"/><sup>27</sup>Set ye up a standard in the land, blow the trumpet among the nations,
prepare the nations against her, call together against her the kingdoms of Ararat, Minni, and Ashkenaz: appoint a marshal against her; cause the horses to come up as the rough canker-worm. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.51.28" data-parsed="Jer_51_28_0_0" data-passage="Jer 51.28" id="Jer.51.28"/><sup>28</sup>Prepare against her the nations,
the kings of the Medes, the governors thereof, and all the deputies thereof,
and all the land of their dominion. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.51.29" data-parsed="Jer_51_29_0_0" data-passage="Jer 51.29" id="Jer.51.29"/><sup>29</sup>And the land trembleth and is in pain; for the purposes of Jehovah against Babylon do stand, to make the land of Babylon a desolation, without inhabitant. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.51.30" data-parsed="Jer_51_30_0_0" data-passage="Jer 51.30" id="Jer.51.30"/><sup>30</sup>The mighty men of Babylon have forborne to fight, they remain in their strongholds; their might hath failed; they are become as women: her dwelling-places are set on fire; her bars are broken. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.51.31" data-parsed="Jer_51_31_0_0" data-passage="Jer 51.31" id="Jer.51.31"/><sup>31</sup>One post shall run to meet another, and one messenger to met another, to show the king of Babylon that his city is taken on every quarter: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.51.32" data-parsed="Jer_51_32_0_0" data-passage="Jer 51.32" id="Jer.51.32"/><sup>32</sup>and the passages are seized, and the reeds they have burned with fire, and the men of war are affrighted. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.51.33" data-parsed="Jer_51_33_0_0" data-passage="Jer 51.33" id="Jer.51.33"/><sup>33</sup>For thus saith Jehovah of hosts, the God of Israel: The daughter of Babylon is like a threshing-floor at the time when it is trodden; yet a little while, and the time of harvest shall come for her. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.51.34" data-parsed="Jer_51_34_0_0" data-passage="Jer 51.34" id="Jer.51.34"/><sup>34</sup>Nebuchadrezzar the king of Babylon hath devoured me, he hath crushed me, he hath made me an empty vessel, he hath, like a monster, swallowed me up, he hath filled his maw with my delicacies; he hath cast me out. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.51.35" data-parsed="Jer_51_35_0_0" data-passage="Jer 51.35" id="Jer.51.35"/><sup>35</sup>The violence done to me and to my flesh be upon Babylon,
shall the inhabitant of Zion say; and, My blood be upon the inhabitants of Chaldea, shall Jerusalem say. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.51.36" data-parsed="Jer_51_36_0_0" data-passage="Jer 51.36" id="Jer.51.36"/><sup>36</sup>Therefore thus saith Jehovah: Behold, I will plead thy cause, and take vengeance for thee; and I will dry up her sea,
and make her fountain dry. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.51.37" data-parsed="Jer_51_37_0_0" data-passage="Jer 51.37" id="Jer.51.37"/><sup>37</sup>And Babylon shall become heaps, a dwelling-place for jackals, an astonishment, and a hissing, without inhabitant. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.51.38" data-parsed="Jer_51_38_0_0" data-passage="Jer 51.38" id="Jer.51.38"/><sup>38</sup>They shall roar together like young lions; they shall growl as lions' whelps. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.51.39" data-parsed="Jer_51_39_0_0" data-passage="Jer 51.39" id="Jer.51.39"/><sup>39</sup>When they are heated, I will make their feast, and I will make them drunken, that they may rejoice, and sleep a perpetual sleep,
and not wake, saith Jehovah. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.51.40" data-parsed="Jer_51_40_0_0" data-passage="Jer 51.40" id="Jer.51.40"/><sup>40</sup>I will bring them down like lambs to the slaughter, like rams with he-goats. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.51.41" data-parsed="Jer_51_41_0_0" data-passage="Jer 51.41" id="Jer.51.41"/><sup>41</sup>How is Sheshach taken! and the praise of the whole earth seized! how is Babylon become a desolation among the nations! 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.51.42" data-parsed="Jer_51_42_0_0" data-passage="Jer 51.42" id="Jer.51.42"/><sup>42</sup>The sea is come up upon Babylon; she is covered with the multitude of the waves thereof. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.51.43" data-parsed="Jer_51_43_0_0" data-passage="Jer 51.43" id="Jer.51.43"/><sup>43</sup>Her cities are become a desolation, a dry land, and a desert, a land wherein no man dwelleth, neither doth any son of man pass thereby. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.51.44" data-parsed="Jer_51_44_0_0" data-passage="Jer 51.44" id="Jer.51.44"/><sup>44</sup>And I will execute judgment upon Bel in Babylon,
and I will bring forth out of his mouth that which he hath swallowed up; and the nations shall not flow any more unto him: yea, the wall of Babylon shall fall. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.51.45" data-parsed="Jer_51_45_0_0" data-passage="Jer 51.45" id="Jer.51.45"/><sup>45</sup>My people, go ye out of the midst of her, and save yourselves every man from the fierce anger of Jehovah. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.51.46" data-parsed="Jer_51_46_0_0" data-passage="Jer 51.46" id="Jer.51.46"/><sup>46</sup>And let not your heart faint, neither fear ye for the tidings that shall be heard in the land; for tidings shall come one year, and after that in another year <i>shall come</i> tidings, and violence in the land, ruler against ruler.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.51.47" data-parsed="Jer_51_47_0_0" data-passage="Jer 51.47" id="Jer.51.47"/><sup>47</sup>Therefore, behold, the days come, that I will execute judgment upon the graven images of Babylon; and her whole land shall be confounded; and all her slain shall fall in the midst of her. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.51.48" data-parsed="Jer_51_48_0_0" data-passage="Jer 51.48" id="Jer.51.48"/><sup>48</sup>Then the heavens and the earth,
and all that is therein, shall sing for joy over Babylon; for the destroyers shall come unto her from the north, saith Jehovah. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.51.49" data-parsed="Jer_51_49_0_0" data-passage="Jer 51.49" id="Jer.51.49"/><sup>49</sup>As Babylon hath caused the slain of Israel to fall, so at Babylon shall fall the slain of all the land. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.51.50" data-parsed="Jer_51_50_0_0" data-passage="Jer 51.50" id="Jer.51.50"/><sup>50</sup>Ye that have escaped the sword, go ye, stand not still;
remember Jehovah from afar, and let Jerusalem come into your mind. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.51.51" data-parsed="Jer_51_51_0_0" data-passage="Jer 51.51" id="Jer.51.51"/><sup>51</sup>We are confounded, because we have heard reproach; confusion hath covered our faces: for strangers are come into the sanctuaries of Jehovah's house.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.51.52" data-parsed="Jer_51_52_0_0" data-passage="Jer 51.52" id="Jer.51.52"/><sup>52</sup>Wherefore, behold, the days come, saith Jehovah, that I will execute judgment upon her graven images; and through all her land the wounded shall groan. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.51.53" data-parsed="Jer_51_53_0_0" data-passage="Jer 51.53" id="Jer.51.53"/><sup>53</sup>Though Babylon should mount up to heaven, and though she should fortify the height of her strength, yet from me shall destroyers come unto her, saith Jehovah. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.51.54" data-parsed="Jer_51_54_0_0" data-passage="Jer 51.54" id="Jer.51.54"/><sup>54</sup>The sound of a cry from Babylon, and of great destruction from the land of the Chaldeans! 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.51.55" data-parsed="Jer_51_55_0_0" data-passage="Jer 51.55" id="Jer.51.55"/><sup>55</sup>For Jehovah layeth Babylon waste, and destroyeth out of her the great voice; and their waves roar like many waters; the noise of their voice is uttered: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.51.56" data-parsed="Jer_51_56_0_0" data-passage="Jer 51.56" id="Jer.51.56"/><sup>56</sup>for the destroyer is come upon her, even upon Babylon, and her mighty men are taken, their bows are broken in pieces; for Jehovah is a God of recompenses, he will surely requite. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.51.57" data-parsed="Jer_51_57_0_0" data-passage="Jer 51.57" id="Jer.51.57"/><sup>57</sup>And I will make drunk her princes and her wise men, her governors and her deputies, and her mighty men; and they shall sleep a perpetual sleep, and not wake, saith the King, whose name is Jehovah of hosts. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.51.58" data-parsed="Jer_51_58_0_0" data-passage="Jer 51.58" id="Jer.51.58"/><sup>58</sup>Thus saith Jehovah of hosts: The broad walls of Babylon shall be utterly overthrown, and her high gates shall be burned with fire; and the peoples shall labor for vanity, and the nations for the fire; and they shall be weary. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.51.59" data-parsed="Jer_51_59_0_0" data-passage="Jer 51.59" id="Jer.51.59"/><sup>59</sup>The word which Jeremiah the prophet commanded Seraiah the son of Neriah, the son of Mahseiah, when he went with Zedekiah the king of Judah to Babylon in the fourth year of his reign. Now Seraiah was chief chamberlain. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.51.60" data-parsed="Jer_51_60_0_0" data-passage="Jer 51.60" id="Jer.51.60"/><sup>60</sup>And Jeremiah wrote in a book all the evil that should come upon Babylon, even all these words that are written concerning Babylon.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.51.61" data-parsed="Jer_51_61_0_0" data-passage="Jer 51.61" id="Jer.51.61"/><sup>61</sup>And Jeremiah said to Seraiah, When thou comest to Babylon, then see that thou read all these words, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.51.62" data-parsed="Jer_51_62_0_0" data-passage="Jer 51.62" id="Jer.51.62"/><sup>62</sup>and say, O Jehovah, thou hast spoken concerning this place, to cut it off, that none shall dwell therein, neither man nor beast, but that it shall be desolate for ever. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.51.63" data-parsed="Jer_51_63_0_0" data-passage="Jer 51.63" id="Jer.51.63"/><sup>63</sup>And it shall be,
when thou hast made an end of reading this book, that thou shalt bind a stone to it, and cast it into the midst of the Euphrates: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.51.64" data-parsed="Jer_51_64_0_0" data-passage="Jer 51.64" id="Jer.51.64"/><sup>64</sup>and thou shalt say,
Thus shall Babylon sink, and shall not rise again because of the evil that I will bring upon her; and they shall be weary. Thus far are the words of Jeremiah.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>