<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Jeremiah 6</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Jeremiah 6</span></div><div data-next="Jer.7" data-prev="Jer.5" data-progress="62.03%" data-shorttitle="" id="Jer.6" title="Jeremiah 6">
<h2 id="Jer.6-p0.1">6</h2>
<p id="Jer.6-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.6.1" data-parsed="Jer_6_1_0_0" data-passage="Jer 6.1" id="Jer.6.1"/><sup>1</sup>Flee for safety, ye children of Benjamin, out of the midst of Jerusalem, and blow the trumpet in Tekoa, and raise up a signal on Beth-haccherem; for evil looketh forth from the north, and a great destruction. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.6.2" data-parsed="Jer_6_2_0_0" data-passage="Jer 6.2" id="Jer.6.2"/><sup>2</sup>The comely and delicate one, the daughter of Zion, will I cut off. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.6.3" data-parsed="Jer_6_3_0_0" data-passage="Jer 6.3" id="Jer.6.3"/><sup>3</sup>Shepherds with their flocks shall come unto her; they shall pitch their tents against her round about; they shall feed every one in his place. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.6.4" data-parsed="Jer_6_4_0_0" data-passage="Jer 6.4" id="Jer.6.4"/><sup>4</sup>Prepare ye war against her; arise, and let us go up at noon. Woe unto us! for the day declineth, for the shadows of the evening are stretched out. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.6.5" data-parsed="Jer_6_5_0_0" data-passage="Jer 6.5" id="Jer.6.5"/><sup>5</sup>Arise, and let us go up by night, and let us destroy her palaces.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.6.6" data-parsed="Jer_6_6_0_0" data-passage="Jer 6.6" id="Jer.6.6"/><sup>6</sup>For thus hath Jehovah of hosts said, Hew ye down trees, and cast up a mound against Jerusalem: this is the city to be visited; she is wholly oppression in the midst of her. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.6.7" data-parsed="Jer_6_7_0_0" data-passage="Jer 6.7" id="Jer.6.7"/><sup>7</sup>As a well casteth forth its waters, so she casteth forth her wickedness: violence and destruction is heard in her;
before me continually is sickness and wounds. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.6.8" data-parsed="Jer_6_8_0_0" data-passage="Jer 6.8" id="Jer.6.8"/><sup>8</sup>Be thou instructed, O Jerusalem, lest my soul be alienated from thee; lest I make thee a desolation, a land not inhabited. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.6.9" data-parsed="Jer_6_9_0_0" data-passage="Jer 6.9" id="Jer.6.9"/><sup>9</sup>Thus saith Jehovah of hosts, They shall thoroughly glean the remnant of Israel as a vine: turn again thy hand as a grape-gatherer into the baskets. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.6.10" data-parsed="Jer_6_10_0_0" data-passage="Jer 6.10" id="Jer.6.10"/><sup>10</sup>To whom shall I speak and testify, that they may hear? behold, their ear is uncircumcised, and they cannot hearken: behold, the word of Jehovah is become unto them a reproach;
they have no delight in it. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.6.11" data-parsed="Jer_6_11_0_0" data-passage="Jer 6.11" id="Jer.6.11"/><sup>11</sup>Therefore I am full of the wrath of Jehovah; I am weary with holding in: pour it out upon the children in the street, and upon the assembly of young men together; for even the husband with the wife shall be taken, the aged with him that is full of days.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.6.12" data-parsed="Jer_6_12_0_0" data-passage="Jer 6.12" id="Jer.6.12"/><sup>12</sup>And their houses shall be turned unto others, their fields and their wives together; for I will stretch out my hand upon the inhabitants of the land, saith Jehovah. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.6.13" data-parsed="Jer_6_13_0_0" data-passage="Jer 6.13" id="Jer.6.13"/><sup>13</sup>For from the least of them even unto the greatest of them every one is given to covetousness; and from the prophet even unto the priest every one dealeth falsely. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.6.14" data-parsed="Jer_6_14_0_0" data-passage="Jer 6.14" id="Jer.6.14"/><sup>14</sup>They have healed also the hurt of my people slightly, saying, Peace, peace; when there is no peace. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.6.15" data-parsed="Jer_6_15_0_0" data-passage="Jer 6.15" id="Jer.6.15"/><sup>15</sup>Were they ashamed when they had committed abomination? nay, they were not at all ashamed, neither could they blush: therefore they shall fall among them that fall; at the time that I visit them they shall be cast down, saith Jehovah.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.6.16" data-parsed="Jer_6_16_0_0" data-passage="Jer 6.16" id="Jer.6.16"/><sup>16</sup>Thus saith Jehovah, Stand ye in the ways and see, and ask for the old paths, where is the good way; and walk therein, and ye shall find rest for your souls: but they said, We will not walk <i>therein</i>. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.6.17" data-parsed="Jer_6_17_0_0" data-passage="Jer 6.17" id="Jer.6.17"/><sup>17</sup>And I set watchmen over you, <i>saying</i>, Hearken to the sound of the trumpet; but they said, We will not hearken. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.6.18" data-parsed="Jer_6_18_0_0" data-passage="Jer 6.18" id="Jer.6.18"/><sup>18</sup>Therefore hear, ye nations, and know, O congregation, what is among them. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.6.19" data-parsed="Jer_6_19_0_0" data-passage="Jer 6.19" id="Jer.6.19"/><sup>19</sup>Hear, O earth: behold, I will bring evil upon this people, even the fruit of their thoughts, because they have not hearkened unto my words; and as for my law, they have rejected it.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.6.20" data-parsed="Jer_6_20_0_0" data-passage="Jer 6.20" id="Jer.6.20"/><sup>20</sup>To what purpose cometh there to me frankincense from Sheba, and the sweet cane from a far country? your burnt-offerings are not acceptable, nor your sacrifices pleasing unto me. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.6.21" data-parsed="Jer_6_21_0_0" data-passage="Jer 6.21" id="Jer.6.21"/><sup>21</sup>Therefore thus saith Jehovah, Behold,
I will lay stumbling-blocks before this people; and the fathers and the sons together shall stumble against them; the neighbor and his friend shall perish. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.6.22" data-parsed="Jer_6_22_0_0" data-passage="Jer 6.22" id="Jer.6.22"/><sup>22</sup>Thus saith Jehovah, Behold, a people cometh from the north country; and a great nation shall be stirred up from the uttermost parts of the earth. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.6.23" data-parsed="Jer_6_23_0_0" data-passage="Jer 6.23" id="Jer.6.23"/><sup>23</sup>They lay hold on bow and spear; they are cruel, and have no mercy; their voice roareth like the sea, and they ride upon horses, every one set in array, as a man to the battle, against thee, O daughter of Zion.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.6.24" data-parsed="Jer_6_24_0_0" data-passage="Jer 6.24" id="Jer.6.24"/><sup>24</sup>We have heard the report thereof; our hands wax feeble: anguish hath taken hold of us, <i>and</i> pangs as of a woman in travail. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.6.25" data-parsed="Jer_6_25_0_0" data-passage="Jer 6.25" id="Jer.6.25"/><sup>25</sup>Go not forth into the field, nor walk by the way; for the sword of the enemy,
<i>and</i> terror, are on every side. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.6.26" data-parsed="Jer_6_26_0_0" data-passage="Jer 6.26" id="Jer.6.26"/><sup>26</sup>O daughter of my people, gird thee with sackcloth, and wallow thyself in ashes: make thee mourning, as for an only son, most bitter lamentation; for the destroyer shall suddenly come upon us. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.6.27" data-parsed="Jer_6_27_0_0" data-passage="Jer 6.27" id="Jer.6.27"/><sup>27</sup>I have made thee a trier <i>and</i> a fortress among my people; that thou mayest know and try their way. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.6.28" data-parsed="Jer_6_28_0_0" data-passage="Jer 6.28" id="Jer.6.28"/><sup>28</sup>They are all grievous revolters, going about with slanders; they are brass and iron: they all of them deal corruptly. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.6.29" data-parsed="Jer_6_29_0_0" data-passage="Jer 6.29" id="Jer.6.29"/><sup>29</sup>The bellows blow fiercely; the lead is consumed of the fire: in vain do they go on refining; for the wicked are not plucked away. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.6.30" data-parsed="Jer_6_30_0_0" data-passage="Jer 6.30" id="Jer.6.30"/><sup>30</sup>Refuse silver shall men them, because Jehovah hath rejected them.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>