<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Jeremiah 9</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Jeremiah 9</span></div><div data-next="Jer.10" data-prev="Jer.8" data-progress="62.35%" data-shorttitle="" id="Jer.9" title="Jeremiah 9">
<h2 id="Jer.9-p0.1">9</h2>
<p id="Jer.9-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.9.1" data-parsed="Jer_9_1_0_0" data-passage="Jer 9.1" id="Jer.9.1"/><sup>1</sup>Oh that my head were waters, and mine eyes a fountain of tears,
that I might weep day and night for the slain of the daughter of my people!

<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.9.2" data-parsed="Jer_9_2_0_0" data-passage="Jer 9.2" id="Jer.9.2"/><sup>2</sup>Oh that I had in the wilderness a lodging-place of wayfaring men; that I might leave my people, and go from them! for they are all adulterers, an assembly of treacherous men. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.9.3" data-parsed="Jer_9_3_0_0" data-passage="Jer 9.3" id="Jer.9.3"/><sup>3</sup>And they bend their tongue, <i>as it were</i> their bow, for falsehood; and they are grown strong in the land, but not for truth: for they proceed from evil to evil, and they know not me,
saith Jehovah. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.9.4" data-parsed="Jer_9_4_0_0" data-passage="Jer 9.4" id="Jer.9.4"/><sup>4</sup>Take ye heed every one of his neighbor, and trust ye not in any brother; for every brother will utterly supplant, and every neighbor will go about with slanders. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.9.5" data-parsed="Jer_9_5_0_0" data-passage="Jer 9.5" id="Jer.9.5"/><sup>5</sup>And they will deceive every one his neighbor, and will not speak the truth: they have taught their tongue to speak lies; they weary themselves to commit iniquity. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.9.6" data-parsed="Jer_9_6_0_0" data-passage="Jer 9.6" id="Jer.9.6"/><sup>6</sup>Thy habitation is in the midst of deceit; through deceit they refuse to know me, saith Jehovah.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.9.7" data-parsed="Jer_9_7_0_0" data-passage="Jer 9.7" id="Jer.9.7"/><sup>7</sup>Therefore thus saith Jehovah of hosts, Behold, I will melt them, and try them; for how <i>else</i> should I do, because of the daughter of my people?

<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.9.8" data-parsed="Jer_9_8_0_0" data-passage="Jer 9.8" id="Jer.9.8"/><sup>8</sup>Their tongue is a deadly arrow; it speaketh deceit: one speaketh peaceably to his neighbor with his mouth, but in his heart he layeth wait for him. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.9.9" data-parsed="Jer_9_9_0_0" data-passage="Jer 9.9" id="Jer.9.9"/><sup>9</sup>Shall I not visit them for these things? saith Jehovah; shall not my soul be avenged on such a nation as this? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.9.10" data-parsed="Jer_9_10_0_0" data-passage="Jer 9.10" id="Jer.9.10"/><sup>10</sup>For the mountains will I take up a weeping and wailing, and for the pastures of the wilderness a lamentation, because they are burned up, so that none passeth through;
neither can men hear the voice of the cattle; both the birds of the heavens and the beasts are fled, they are gone. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.9.11" data-parsed="Jer_9_11_0_0" data-passage="Jer 9.11" id="Jer.9.11"/><sup>11</sup>And I will make Jerusalem heaps, a dwelling-place of jackals; and I will make the cities of Judah a desolation, without inhabitant. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.9.12" data-parsed="Jer_9_12_0_0" data-passage="Jer 9.12" id="Jer.9.12"/><sup>12</sup>Who is the wise man, that may understand this? and <i>who is</i> he to whom the mouth of Jehovah hath spoken, that he may declare it? wherefore is the land perished and burned up like a wilderness, so that none passeth through? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.9.13" data-parsed="Jer_9_13_0_0" data-passage="Jer 9.13" id="Jer.9.13"/><sup>13</sup>And Jehovah saith,
Because they have forsaken my law which I set before them, and have not obeyed my voice, neither walked therein, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.9.14" data-parsed="Jer_9_14_0_0" data-passage="Jer 9.14" id="Jer.9.14"/><sup>14</sup>but have walked after the stubbornness of their own heart, and after the Baalim, which their fathers taught them; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.9.15" data-parsed="Jer_9_15_0_0" data-passage="Jer 9.15" id="Jer.9.15"/><sup>15</sup>therefore thus saith Jehovah of hosts, the God of Israel,
Behold, I will feed them, even this people, with wormwood, and give them water of gall to drink. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.9.16" data-parsed="Jer_9_16_0_0" data-passage="Jer 9.16" id="Jer.9.16"/><sup>16</sup>I will scatter them also among the nations,
whom neither they nor their fathers have known; and I will send the sword after them, till I have consumed them. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.9.17" data-parsed="Jer_9_17_0_0" data-passage="Jer 9.17" id="Jer.9.17"/><sup>17</sup>Thus saith Jehovah of hosts,
Consider ye, and call for the mourning women, that they may come; and send for the skilful women, that they may come: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.9.18" data-parsed="Jer_9_18_0_0" data-passage="Jer 9.18" id="Jer.9.18"/><sup>18</sup>and let them make haste, and take up a wailing for us, that our eyes may run down with tears, and our eyelids gush out with waters. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.9.19" data-parsed="Jer_9_19_0_0" data-passage="Jer 9.19" id="Jer.9.19"/><sup>19</sup>For a voice of wailing is heard out of Zion, How are we ruined! we are greatly confounded, because we have forsaken the land, because they have cast down our dwellings. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.9.20" data-parsed="Jer_9_20_0_0" data-passage="Jer 9.20" id="Jer.9.20"/><sup>20</sup>Yet hear the word of Jehovah, O ye women, and let your ear receive the word of his mouth; and teach your daughters wailing, and every one her neighbor lamentation.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.9.21" data-parsed="Jer_9_21_0_0" data-passage="Jer 9.21" id="Jer.9.21"/><sup>21</sup>For death is come up into our windows, it is entered into our palaces;
to cut off the children from without, <i>and</i> the young men from the streets. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.9.22" data-parsed="Jer_9_22_0_0" data-passage="Jer 9.22" id="Jer.9.22"/><sup>22</sup>Speak, Thus saith Jehovah, The dead bodies of men shall fall as dung upon the open field, and as the handful after the harvestman; and none shall gather <i>them</i>. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.9.23" data-parsed="Jer_9_23_0_0" data-passage="Jer 9.23" id="Jer.9.23"/><sup>23</sup>Thus saith Jehovah, Let not the wise man glory in his wisdom, neither let the mighty man glory in his might, let not the rich man glory in his riches; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.9.24" data-parsed="Jer_9_24_0_0" data-passage="Jer 9.24" id="Jer.9.24"/><sup>24</sup>but let him that glorieth glory in this, that he hath understanding, and knoweth me, that I am Jehovah who exerciseth lovingkindness, justice, and righteousness, in the earth: for in these things I delight, saith Jehovah. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.9.25" data-parsed="Jer_9_25_0_0" data-passage="Jer 9.25" id="Jer.9.25"/><sup>25</sup>Behold, the days come, saith Jehovah, that I will punish all them that are circumcised in <i>their</i>
uncircumcision: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jer.9.26" data-parsed="Jer_9_26_0_0" data-passage="Jer 9.26" id="Jer.9.26"/><sup>26</sup>Egypt, and Judah, and Edom, and the children of Ammon,
and Moab, and all that have the corners <i>of their hair</i> cut off, that dwell in the wilderness; for all the nations are uncircumcised, and all the house of Israel are uncircumcised in heart.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>