<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Joel 2</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Joel 2</span></div><div data-next="Joel.3" data-prev="Joel.1" data-progress="74.37%" data-shorttitle="" id="Joel.2" title="Joel 2">
<h2 id="Joel.2-p0.1">2</h2>
<p id="Joel.2-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Joel.2.1" data-parsed="Joel_2_1_0_0" data-passage="Joel 2.1" id="Joel.2.1"/><sup>1</sup>Blow ye the trumpet in Zion, and sound an alarm in my holy mountain; let all the inhabitants of the land tremble: for the day of Jehovah cometh, for it is nigh at hand; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Joel.2.2" data-parsed="Joel_2_2_0_0" data-passage="Joel 2.2" id="Joel.2.2"/><sup>2</sup>a day of darkness and gloominess, a day of clouds and thick darkness, as the dawn spread upon the mountains; a great people and a strong; there hath not been ever the like, neither shall be any more after them, even to the years of many generations. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Joel.2.3" data-parsed="Joel_2_3_0_0" data-passage="Joel 2.3" id="Joel.2.3"/><sup>3</sup>A fire devoureth before them; and behind them a flame burneth: the land is as the garden of Eden before them, and behind them a desolate wilderness; yea, and none hath escaped them. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Joel.2.4" data-parsed="Joel_2_4_0_0" data-passage="Joel 2.4" id="Joel.2.4"/><sup>4</sup>The appearance of them is as the appearance of horses; and as horsemen, so do they run. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Joel.2.5" data-parsed="Joel_2_5_0_0" data-passage="Joel 2.5" id="Joel.2.5"/><sup>5</sup>Like the noise of chariots on the tops of the mountains do they leap, like the noise of a flame of fire that devoureth the stubble, as a strong people set in battle array. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Joel.2.6" data-parsed="Joel_2_6_0_0" data-passage="Joel 2.6" id="Joel.2.6"/><sup>6</sup>At their presence the peoples are in anguish; all faces are waxed pale. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Joel.2.7" data-parsed="Joel_2_7_0_0" data-passage="Joel 2.7" id="Joel.2.7"/><sup>7</sup>They run like mighty men; they climb the wall like men of war; and they march every one on his ways, and they break not their ranks. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Joel.2.8" data-parsed="Joel_2_8_0_0" data-passage="Joel 2.8" id="Joel.2.8"/><sup>8</sup>Neither doth one thrust another; they march every one in his path; and they burst through the weapons, and break not off <i>their course</i>. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Joel.2.9" data-parsed="Joel_2_9_0_0" data-passage="Joel 2.9" id="Joel.2.9"/><sup>9</sup>They leap upon the city; they run upon the wall; they climb up into the houses; they enter in at the windows like a thief. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Joel.2.10" data-parsed="Joel_2_10_0_0" data-passage="Joel 2.10" id="Joel.2.10"/><sup>10</sup>The earth quaketh before them; the heavens tremble; the sun and the moon are darkened, and the stars withdraw their shining. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Joel.2.11" data-parsed="Joel_2_11_0_0" data-passage="Joel 2.11" id="Joel.2.11"/><sup>11</sup>And Jehovah uttereth his voice before his army; for his camp is very great; for he is strong that executeth his word; for the day of Jehovah is great and very terrible; and who can abide it? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Joel.2.12" data-parsed="Joel_2_12_0_0" data-passage="Joel 2.12" id="Joel.2.12"/><sup>12</sup>Yet even now,
saith Jehovah, turn ye unto me with all your heart, and with fasting, and with weeping, and with mourning: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Joel.2.13" data-parsed="Joel_2_13_0_0" data-passage="Joel 2.13" id="Joel.2.13"/><sup>13</sup>and rend your heart, and not your garments, and turn unto Jehovah your God; for he is gracious and merciful,
slow to anger, and abundant in lovingkindness, and repenteth him of the evil.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Joel.2.14" data-parsed="Joel_2_14_0_0" data-passage="Joel 2.14" id="Joel.2.14"/><sup>14</sup>Who knoweth whether he will not turn and repent, and leave a blessing behind him, even a meal-offering and a drink-offering unto Jehovah your God?

<span data-osisref="Bible:Joel.2.15" data-parsed="Joel_2_15_0_0" data-passage="Joel 2.15" id="Joel.2.15"/><sup>15</sup>Blow the trumpet in Zion, sanctify a fast, call a solemn assembly;

<span data-osisref="Bible:Joel.2.16" data-parsed="Joel_2_16_0_0" data-passage="Joel 2.16" id="Joel.2.16"/><sup>16</sup>gather the people, sanctify the assembly, assemble the old men, gather the children, and those that suck the breasts; let the bridegroom go forth from his chamber, and the bride out of her closet. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Joel.2.17" data-parsed="Joel_2_17_0_0" data-passage="Joel 2.17" id="Joel.2.17"/><sup>17</sup>Let the priests, the ministers of Jehovah, weep between the porch and the altar, and let them say,
Spare thy people, O Jehovah, and give not thy heritage to reproach, that the nations should rule over them: wherefore should they say among the peoples,
Where is their God? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Joel.2.18" data-parsed="Joel_2_18_0_0" data-passage="Joel 2.18" id="Joel.2.18"/><sup>18</sup>Then was Jehovah jealous for his land, and had pity on his people. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Joel.2.19" data-parsed="Joel_2_19_0_0" data-passage="Joel 2.19" id="Joel.2.19"/><sup>19</sup>And Jehovah answered and said unto his people, Behold, I will send you grain, and new wine, and oil, and ye shall be satisfied therewith; and I will no more make you a reproach among the nations;

<span data-osisref="Bible:Joel.2.20" data-parsed="Joel_2_20_0_0" data-passage="Joel 2.20" id="Joel.2.20"/><sup>20</sup>but I will remove far off from you the northern <i>army</i>, and will drive it into a land barren and desolate, its forepart into the eastern sea,
and its hinder part into the western sea; and its stench shall come up, and its ill savor shall come up, because it hath done great things. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Joel.2.21" data-parsed="Joel_2_21_0_0" data-passage="Joel 2.21" id="Joel.2.21"/><sup>21</sup>Fear not, O land, be glad and rejoice; for Jehovah hath done great things.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Joel.2.22" data-parsed="Joel_2_22_0_0" data-passage="Joel 2.22" id="Joel.2.22"/><sup>22</sup>Be not afraid, ye beasts of the field; for the pastures of the wilderness do spring, for the tree beareth its fruit, the fig-tree and the vine do yield their strength. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Joel.2.23" data-parsed="Joel_2_23_0_0" data-passage="Joel 2.23" id="Joel.2.23"/><sup>23</sup>Be glad then, ye children of Zion, and rejoice in Jehovah your God; for he giveth you the former rain in just measure, and he causeth to come down for you the rain, the former rain and the latter rain, in the first <i>month</i>. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Joel.2.24" data-parsed="Joel_2_24_0_0" data-passage="Joel 2.24" id="Joel.2.24"/><sup>24</sup>And the floors shall be full of wheat, and the vats shall overflow with new wine and oil. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Joel.2.25" data-parsed="Joel_2_25_0_0" data-passage="Joel 2.25" id="Joel.2.25"/><sup>25</sup>And I will restore to you the years that the locust hath eaten, the canker-worm,
and the caterpillar, and the palmer-worm, my great army which I sent among you. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Joel.2.26" data-parsed="Joel_2_26_0_0" data-passage="Joel 2.26" id="Joel.2.26"/><sup>26</sup>And ye shall eat in plenty and be satisfied, and shall praise the name of Jehovah your God, that hath dealt wondrously with you; and my people shall never be put to shame. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Joel.2.27" data-parsed="Joel_2_27_0_0" data-passage="Joel 2.27" id="Joel.2.27"/><sup>27</sup>And ye shall know that I am in the midst of Israel, and that I am Jehovah your God, and there is none else; and my people shall never be put to shame. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Joel.2.28" data-parsed="Joel_2_28_0_0" data-passage="Joel 2.28" id="Joel.2.28"/><sup>28</sup>And it shall come to pass afterward, that I will pour out my Spirit upon all flesh; and your sons and your daughters shall prophesy, your old men shall dream dreams, your young men shall see visions: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Joel.2.29" data-parsed="Joel_2_29_0_0" data-passage="Joel 2.29" id="Joel.2.29"/><sup>29</sup>and also upon the servants and upon the handmaids in those days will I pour out my Spirit. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Joel.2.30" data-parsed="Joel_2_30_0_0" data-passage="Joel 2.30" id="Joel.2.30"/><sup>30</sup>And I will show wonders in the heavens and in the earth: blood, and fire, and pillars of smoke. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Joel.2.31" data-parsed="Joel_2_31_0_0" data-passage="Joel 2.31" id="Joel.2.31"/><sup>31</sup>The sun shall be turned into darkness, and the moon into blood,
before the great and terrible day of Jehovah cometh. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Joel.2.32" data-parsed="Joel_2_32_0_0" data-passage="Joel 2.32" id="Joel.2.32"/><sup>32</sup>And it shall come to pass, that whosoever shall call on the name of Jehovah shall be delivered;
for in mount Zion and in Jerusalem there shall be those that escape, as Jehovah hath said, and among the remnant those whom Jehovah doth call.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>