<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>John 12</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">John 12</span></div><div data-next="John.13" data-prev="John.11" data-progress="86.71%" data-shorttitle="" id="John.12" title="John 12">
<h2 id="John.12-p0.1">12</h2>
<p id="John.12-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.12.1" data-parsed="John_12_1_0_0" data-passage="John 12.1" id="John.12.1"/><sup>1</sup>Jesus therefore six days before the passover came to Bethany,
where Lazarus was, whom Jesus raised from the dead. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.12.2" data-parsed="John_12_2_0_0" data-passage="John 12.2" id="John.12.2"/><sup>2</sup>So they made him a supper there: and Martha served; but Lazarus was one of them that sat at meat with him. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.12.3" data-parsed="John_12_3_0_0" data-passage="John 12.3" id="John.12.3"/><sup>3</sup>Mary therefore took a pound of ointment of pure nard, very precious, and anointed the feet of Jesus, and wiped his feet with her hair:
and the house was filled with the odor of the ointment. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.12.4" data-parsed="John_12_4_0_0" data-passage="John 12.4" id="John.12.4"/><sup>4</sup>But Judas Iscariot, one of his disciples, that should betray him, saith, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.12.5" data-parsed="John_12_5_0_0" data-passage="John 12.5" id="John.12.5"/><sup>5</sup>Why was not this ointment sold for three hundred shillings, and given to the poor?

<span data-osisref="Bible:John.12.6" data-parsed="John_12_6_0_0" data-passage="John 12.6" id="John.12.6"/><sup>6</sup>Now this he said, not because he cared for the poor; but because he was a thief, and having the bag took away what was put therein. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.12.7" data-parsed="John_12_7_0_0" data-passage="John 12.7" id="John.12.7"/><sup>7</sup>Jesus therefore said, Suffer her to keep it against the day of my burying. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.12.8" data-parsed="John_12_8_0_0" data-passage="John 12.8" id="John.12.8"/><sup>8</sup>For the poor ye have always with you; but me ye have not always. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.12.9" data-parsed="John_12_9_0_0" data-passage="John 12.9" id="John.12.9"/><sup>9</sup>The common people therefore of the Jews learned that he was there: and they came, not for Jesus' sake only, but that they might see Lazarus also, whom he had raised from the dead. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.12.10" data-parsed="John_12_10_0_0" data-passage="John 12.10" id="John.12.10"/><sup>10</sup>But the chief priests took counsel that they might put Lazarus also to death; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.12.11" data-parsed="John_12_11_0_0" data-passage="John 12.11" id="John.12.11"/><sup>11</sup>because that by reason of him many of the Jews went away, and believed on Jesus. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.12.12" data-parsed="John_12_12_0_0" data-passage="John 12.12" id="John.12.12"/><sup>12</sup>On the morrow a great multitude that had come to the feast, when they heard that Jesus was coming to Jerusalem, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.12.13" data-parsed="John_12_13_0_0" data-passage="John 12.13" id="John.12.13"/><sup>13</sup>took the branches of the palm trees, and went forth to meet him, and cried out, Hosanna: Blessed <i>is</i> he that cometh in the name of the Lord, even the King of Israel. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.12.14" data-parsed="John_12_14_0_0" data-passage="John 12.14" id="John.12.14"/><sup>14</sup>And Jesus, having found a young ass, sat thereon; as it is written, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.12.15" data-parsed="John_12_15_0_0" data-passage="John 12.15" id="John.12.15"/><sup>15</sup>Fear not, daughter of Zion:
behold, thy King cometh, sitting on an ass's colt. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.12.16" data-parsed="John_12_16_0_0" data-passage="John 12.16" id="John.12.16"/><sup>16</sup>These things understood not his disciples at the first: but when Jesus was glorified, then remembered they that these things were written of him, and that they had done these things unto him. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.12.17" data-parsed="John_12_17_0_0" data-passage="John 12.17" id="John.12.17"/><sup>17</sup>The multitude therefore that was with him when he called Lazarus out of the tomb, and raised him from the dead, bare witness. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.12.18" data-parsed="John_12_18_0_0" data-passage="John 12.18" id="John.12.18"/><sup>18</sup>For this cause also the multitude went and met him, for that they heard that he had done this sign. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.12.19" data-parsed="John_12_19_0_0" data-passage="John 12.19" id="John.12.19"/><sup>19</sup>The Pharisees therefore said among themselves, Behold how ye prevail nothing: lo, the world is gone after him. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.12.20" data-parsed="John_12_20_0_0" data-passage="John 12.20" id="John.12.20"/><sup>20</sup>Now there were certain Greeks among those that went up to worship at the feast: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.12.21" data-parsed="John_12_21_0_0" data-passage="John 12.21" id="John.12.21"/><sup>21</sup>these therefore came to Philip, who was of Bethsaida of Galilee, and asked him, saying, Sir, we would see Jesus. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.12.22" data-parsed="John_12_22_0_0" data-passage="John 12.22" id="John.12.22"/><sup>22</sup>Philip cometh and telleth Andrew: Andrew cometh, and Philip, and they tell Jesus. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.12.23" data-parsed="John_12_23_0_0" data-passage="John 12.23" id="John.12.23"/><sup>23</sup>And Jesus answereth them, saying, The hour is come, that the Son of man should be glorified. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.12.24" data-parsed="John_12_24_0_0" data-passage="John 12.24" id="John.12.24"/><sup>24</sup>Verily, verily, I say unto you, Except a grain of wheat fall into the earth and die, it abideth by itself alone; but if it die, it beareth much fruit. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.12.25" data-parsed="John_12_25_0_0" data-passage="John 12.25" id="John.12.25"/><sup>25</sup>He that loveth his life loseth it; and he that hateth his life in this world shall keep it unto life eternal. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.12.26" data-parsed="John_12_26_0_0" data-passage="John 12.26" id="John.12.26"/><sup>26</sup>If any man serve me, let him follow me; and where I am, there shall also my servant be: if any man serve me, him will the Father honor. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.12.27" data-parsed="John_12_27_0_0" data-passage="John 12.27" id="John.12.27"/><sup>27</sup>Now is my soul troubled; and what shall I say? Father, save me from this hour. But for this cause came I unto this hour. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.12.28" data-parsed="John_12_28_0_0" data-passage="John 12.28" id="John.12.28"/><sup>28</sup>Father, glorify thy name. There came therefore a voice out of heaven, <i>saying</i>, I have both glorified it, and will glorify it again. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.12.29" data-parsed="John_12_29_0_0" data-passage="John 12.29" id="John.12.29"/><sup>29</sup>The multitude therefore, that stood by, and heard it, said that it had thundered: others said, An angel hath spoken to him. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.12.30" data-parsed="John_12_30_0_0" data-passage="John 12.30" id="John.12.30"/><sup>30</sup>Jesus answered and said, This voice hath not come for my sake, but for your sakes.

<span data-osisref="Bible:John.12.31" data-parsed="John_12_31_0_0" data-passage="John 12.31" id="John.12.31"/><sup>31</sup>Now is the judgment of this world: now shall the prince of this world be cast out. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.12.32" data-parsed="John_12_32_0_0" data-passage="John 12.32" id="John.12.32"/><sup>32</sup>And I, if I be lifted up from the earth, will draw all men unto myself. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.12.33" data-parsed="John_12_33_0_0" data-passage="John 12.33" id="John.12.33"/><sup>33</sup>But this he said, signifying by what manner of death he should die. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.12.34" data-parsed="John_12_34_0_0" data-passage="John 12.34" id="John.12.34"/><sup>34</sup>The multitude therefore answered him, We have heard out of the law that the Christ abideth for ever: and how sayest thou, The Son of man must be lifted up? who is this Son of man? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.12.35" data-parsed="John_12_35_0_0" data-passage="John 12.35" id="John.12.35"/><sup>35</sup>Jesus therefore said unto them, Yet a little while is the light among you. Walk while ye have the light, that darkness overtake you not: and he that walketh in the darkness knoweth not whither he goeth. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.12.36" data-parsed="John_12_36_0_0" data-passage="John 12.36" id="John.12.36"/><sup>36</sup>While ye have the light, believe on the light, that ye may become sons of light. These things spake Jesus, and he departed and hid himself from them. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.12.37" data-parsed="John_12_37_0_0" data-passage="John 12.37" id="John.12.37"/><sup>37</sup>But though he had done so many signs before them, yet they believed not on him: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.12.38" data-parsed="John_12_38_0_0" data-passage="John 12.38" id="John.12.38"/><sup>38</sup>that the word of Isaiah the prophet might be fulfilled, which he spake,</p>
<p class="poetry" id="John.12-p2">
Lord, who hath believed our report?</p>
<p class="poetry" id="John.12-p3">
And to whom hath the arm of the Lord been revealed?</p>
<p id="John.12-p4">
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.12.39" data-parsed="John_12_39_0_0" data-passage="John 12.39" id="John.12.39"/><sup>39</sup>For this cause they could not believe, for that Isaiah said again,</p>
<p class="poetry" id="John.12-p5">
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.12.40" data-parsed="John_12_40_0_0" data-passage="John 12.40" id="John.12.40"/><sup>40</sup>He hath blinded their eyes, and he hardened their heart;</p>
<p class="poetry" id="John.12-p6">
Lest they should see with their eyes, and perceive with their heart,</p>
<p class="poetry" id="John.12-p7">
And should turn,</p>
<p class="poetry" id="John.12-p8">
And I should heal them.</p>
<p id="John.12-p9">
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.12.41" data-parsed="John_12_41_0_0" data-passage="John 12.41" id="John.12.41"/><sup>41</sup>These things said Isaiah, because he saw his glory; and he spake of him. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.12.42" data-parsed="John_12_42_0_0" data-passage="John 12.42" id="John.12.42"/><sup>42</sup>Nevertheless even of the rulers many believed on him; but because of the Pharisees they did not confess <i>it</i>, lest they should be put out of the synagogue: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.12.43" data-parsed="John_12_43_0_0" data-passage="John 12.43" id="John.12.43"/><sup>43</sup>for they loved the glory <i>that is</i> of men more than the glory <i>that is</i> of God. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.12.44" data-parsed="John_12_44_0_0" data-passage="John 12.44" id="John.12.44"/><sup>44</sup>And Jesus cried and said, He that believeth on me, believeth not on me, but on him that sent me. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.12.45" data-parsed="John_12_45_0_0" data-passage="John 12.45" id="John.12.45"/><sup>45</sup>And he that beholdeth me beholdeth him that sent me. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.12.46" data-parsed="John_12_46_0_0" data-passage="John 12.46" id="John.12.46"/><sup>46</sup>I am come a light into the world, that whosoever believeth on me may not abide in the darkness.

<span data-osisref="Bible:John.12.47" data-parsed="John_12_47_0_0" data-passage="John 12.47" id="John.12.47"/><sup>47</sup>And if any man hear my sayings, and keep them not, I judge him not: for I came not to judge the world, but to save the world. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.12.48" data-parsed="John_12_48_0_0" data-passage="John 12.48" id="John.12.48"/><sup>48</sup>He that rejecteth me, and receiveth not my sayings, hath one that judgeth him: the word that I spake, the same shall judge him in the last day. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.12.49" data-parsed="John_12_49_0_0" data-passage="John 12.49" id="John.12.49"/><sup>49</sup>For I spake not from myself; but the Father that sent me, he hath given me a commandment, what I should say, and what I should speak. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.12.50" data-parsed="John_12_50_0_0" data-passage="John 12.50" id="John.12.50"/><sup>50</sup>And I know that his commandment is life eternal: the things therefore which I speak, even as the Father hath said unto me, so I speak.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>