<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>John 14</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">John 14</span></div><div data-next="John.15" data-prev="John.13" data-progress="86.95%" data-shorttitle="" id="John.14" title="John 14">
<h2 id="John.14-p0.1">14</h2>
<p id="John.14-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.14.1" data-parsed="John_14_1_0_0" data-passage="John 14.1" id="John.14.1"/><sup>1</sup>Let not your heart be troubled: believe in God, believe also in me. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.14.2" data-parsed="John_14_2_0_0" data-passage="John 14.2" id="John.14.2"/><sup>2</sup>In my Father's house are many mansions; if it were not so, I would have told you; for I go to prepare a place for you. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.14.3" data-parsed="John_14_3_0_0" data-passage="John 14.3" id="John.14.3"/><sup>3</sup>And if I go and prepare a place for you, I come again, and will receive you unto myself; that where I am, <i>there</i> ye may be also. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.14.4" data-parsed="John_14_4_0_0" data-passage="John 14.4" id="John.14.4"/><sup>4</sup>And whither I go, ye know the way. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.14.5" data-parsed="John_14_5_0_0" data-passage="John 14.5" id="John.14.5"/><sup>5</sup>Thomas saith unto him, Lord, we know not whither thou goest; how know we the way? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.14.6" data-parsed="John_14_6_0_0" data-passage="John 14.6" id="John.14.6"/><sup>6</sup>Jesus saith unto him, I am the way, and the truth, and the life: no one cometh unto the Father, but by me. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.14.7" data-parsed="John_14_7_0_0" data-passage="John 14.7" id="John.14.7"/><sup>7</sup>If ye had known me,
ye would have known my Father also: from henceforth ye know him, and have seen him. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.14.8" data-parsed="John_14_8_0_0" data-passage="John 14.8" id="John.14.8"/><sup>8</sup>Philip saith unto him, Lord, show us the Father, and it sufficeth us. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.14.9" data-parsed="John_14_9_0_0" data-passage="John 14.9" id="John.14.9"/><sup>9</sup>Jesus saith unto him, Have I been so long time with you,
and dost thou not know me, Philip? he that hath seen me hath seen the Father;
how sayest thou, Show us the Father? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.14.10" data-parsed="John_14_10_0_0" data-passage="John 14.10" id="John.14.10"/><sup>10</sup>Believest thou not that I am in the Father, and the Father in me? the words that I say unto you I speak not from myself: but the Father abiding in me doeth his works. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.14.11" data-parsed="John_14_11_0_0" data-passage="John 14.11" id="John.14.11"/><sup>11</sup>Believe me that I am in the Father, and the Father in me: or else believe me for the very works' sake. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.14.12" data-parsed="John_14_12_0_0" data-passage="John 14.12" id="John.14.12"/><sup>12</sup>Verily, verily, I say unto you, he that believeth on me, the works that I do shall he do also; and greater <i>works</i> than these shall he do; because I go unto the Father. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.14.13" data-parsed="John_14_13_0_0" data-passage="John 14.13" id="John.14.13"/><sup>13</sup>And whatsoever ye shall ask in my name, that will I do, that the Father may be glorified in the Son. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.14.14" data-parsed="John_14_14_0_0" data-passage="John 14.14" id="John.14.14"/><sup>14</sup>If ye shall ask anything in my name, that will I do. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.14.15" data-parsed="John_14_15_0_0" data-passage="John 14.15" id="John.14.15"/><sup>15</sup>If ye love me, ye will keep my commandments. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.14.16" data-parsed="John_14_16_0_0" data-passage="John 14.16" id="John.14.16"/><sup>16</sup>And I will pray the Father, and he shall give you another Comforter, that he may be with you for ever,

<span data-osisref="Bible:John.14.17" data-parsed="John_14_17_0_0" data-passage="John 14.17" id="John.14.17"/><sup>17</sup><i>even</i> the Spirit of truth: whom the world cannot receive; for it beholdeth him not, neither knoweth him: ye know him; for he abideth with you,
and shall be in you. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.14.18" data-parsed="John_14_18_0_0" data-passage="John 14.18" id="John.14.18"/><sup>18</sup>I will not leave you desolate: I come unto you.

<span data-osisref="Bible:John.14.19" data-parsed="John_14_19_0_0" data-passage="John 14.19" id="John.14.19"/><sup>19</sup>Yet a little while, and the world beholdeth me no more; but ye behold me: because I live, ye shall live also. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.14.20" data-parsed="John_14_20_0_0" data-passage="John 14.20" id="John.14.20"/><sup>20</sup>In that day ye shall know that I am in my Father, and ye in me, and I in you. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.14.21" data-parsed="John_14_21_0_0" data-passage="John 14.21" id="John.14.21"/><sup>21</sup>He that hath my commandments, and keepeth them, he it is that loveth me: and he that loveth me shall be loved of my Father, and I will love him, and will manifest myself unto him. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.14.22" data-parsed="John_14_22_0_0" data-passage="John 14.22" id="John.14.22"/><sup>22</sup>Judas (not Iscariot) saith unto him, Lord, what is come to pass that thou wilt manifest thyself unto us, and not unto the world?

<span data-osisref="Bible:John.14.23" data-parsed="John_14_23_0_0" data-passage="John 14.23" id="John.14.23"/><sup>23</sup>Jesus answered and said unto him, If a man love me, he will keep my word: and my Father will love him, and we will come unto him, and make our abode with him. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.14.24" data-parsed="John_14_24_0_0" data-passage="John 14.24" id="John.14.24"/><sup>24</sup>He that loveth me not keepeth not my words: and the word which ye hear is not mine, but the Father's who sent me. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.14.25" data-parsed="John_14_25_0_0" data-passage="John 14.25" id="John.14.25"/><sup>25</sup>These things have I spoken unto you, while <i>yet</i> abiding with you. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.14.26" data-parsed="John_14_26_0_0" data-passage="John 14.26" id="John.14.26"/><sup>26</sup>But the Comforter, <i>even</i> the Holy Spirit, whom the Father will send in my name, he shall teach you all things, and bring to your remembrance all that I said unto you. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.14.27" data-parsed="John_14_27_0_0" data-passage="John 14.27" id="John.14.27"/><sup>27</sup>Peace I leave with you; my peace I give unto you: not as the world giveth, give I unto you. Let not your heart be troubled, neither let it be fearful. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.14.28" data-parsed="John_14_28_0_0" data-passage="John 14.28" id="John.14.28"/><sup>28</sup>Ye heard how I said to you, I go away, and I come unto you. If ye loved me, ye would have rejoiced, because I go unto the Father: for the Father is greater than I. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.14.29" data-parsed="John_14_29_0_0" data-passage="John 14.29" id="John.14.29"/><sup>29</sup>And now I have told you before it come to pass, that, when it is come to pass, ye may believe.

<span data-osisref="Bible:John.14.30" data-parsed="John_14_30_0_0" data-passage="John 14.30" id="John.14.30"/><sup>30</sup>I will no more speak much with you, for the prince of the world cometh:
and he hath nothing in me; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.14.31" data-parsed="John_14_31_0_0" data-passage="John 14.31" id="John.14.31"/><sup>31</sup>but that the world may know that I love the Father, and as the Father gave me commandment, even so I do. Arise, let us go hence.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>