<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>John 17</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">John 17</span></div><div data-next="John.18" data-prev="John.16" data-progress="87.20%" data-shorttitle="" id="John.17" title="John 17">
<h2 id="John.17-p0.1">17</h2>
<p id="John.17-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.17.1" data-parsed="John_17_1_0_0" data-passage="John 17.1" id="John.17.1"/><sup>1</sup>These things spake Jesus; and lifting up his eyes to heaven, he said, Father, the hour is come; glorify thy Son, that the son may glorify thee: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.17.2" data-parsed="John_17_2_0_0" data-passage="John 17.2" id="John.17.2"/><sup>2</sup>even as thou gavest him authority over all flesh, that to all whom thou hast given him, he should give eternal life. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.17.3" data-parsed="John_17_3_0_0" data-passage="John 17.3" id="John.17.3"/><sup>3</sup>And this is life eternal, that they should know thee the only true God, and him whom thou didst send, <i>even</i> Jesus Christ. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.17.4" data-parsed="John_17_4_0_0" data-passage="John 17.4" id="John.17.4"/><sup>4</sup>I glorified thee on the earth,
having accomplished the work which thou hast given me to do. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.17.5" data-parsed="John_17_5_0_0" data-passage="John 17.5" id="John.17.5"/><sup>5</sup>And now,
Father, glorify thou me with thine own self with the glory which I had with thee before the world was. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.17.6" data-parsed="John_17_6_0_0" data-passage="John 17.6" id="John.17.6"/><sup>6</sup>I manifested thy name unto the men whom thou gavest me out of the world: thine they were, and thou gavest them to me; and they have kept thy word. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.17.7" data-parsed="John_17_7_0_0" data-passage="John 17.7" id="John.17.7"/><sup>7</sup>Now they know that all things whatsoever thou hast given me are from thee: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.17.8" data-parsed="John_17_8_0_0" data-passage="John 17.8" id="John.17.8"/><sup>8</sup>for the words which thou gavest me I have given unto them; and they received <i>them</i>, and knew of a truth that I came forth from thee, and they believed that thou didst send me. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.17.9" data-parsed="John_17_9_0_0" data-passage="John 17.9" id="John.17.9"/><sup>9</sup>I pray for them: I pray not for the world, but for those whom thou hast given me;
for they are thine: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.17.10" data-parsed="John_17_10_0_0" data-passage="John 17.10" id="John.17.10"/><sup>10</sup>and all things that are mine are thine, and thine are mine: and I am glorified in them. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.17.11" data-parsed="John_17_11_0_0" data-passage="John 17.11" id="John.17.11"/><sup>11</sup>And I am no more in the world,
and these are in the world, and I come to thee. Holy Father, keep them in thy name which thou hast given me, that they may be one, even as we <i>are</i>.

<span data-osisref="Bible:John.17.12" data-parsed="John_17_12_0_0" data-passage="John 17.12" id="John.17.12"/><sup>12</sup>While I was with them, I kept them in thy name which thou hast given me: and I guarded them, and not one of them perished, but the son of perdition; that the span might be fulfilled. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.17.13" data-parsed="John_17_13_0_0" data-passage="John 17.13" id="John.17.13"/><sup>13</sup>But now I come to thee; and these things I speak in the world, that they may have my joy made full in themselves. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.17.14" data-parsed="John_17_14_0_0" data-passage="John 17.14" id="John.17.14"/><sup>14</sup>I have given them thy word; and the world hated them, because they are not of the world, even as I am not of the world.

<span data-osisref="Bible:John.17.15" data-parsed="John_17_15_0_0" data-passage="John 17.15" id="John.17.15"/><sup>15</sup>I pray not that thou shouldest take them from the world, but that thou shouldest keep them from the evil <i>one</i>. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.17.16" data-parsed="John_17_16_0_0" data-passage="John 17.16" id="John.17.16"/><sup>16</sup>They are not of the world even as I am not of the world. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.17.17" data-parsed="John_17_17_0_0" data-passage="John 17.17" id="John.17.17"/><sup>17</sup>Sanctify them in the truth: thy word is truth. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.17.18" data-parsed="John_17_18_0_0" data-passage="John 17.18" id="John.17.18"/><sup>18</sup>As thou didst send me into the world, even so sent I them into the world. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.17.19" data-parsed="John_17_19_0_0" data-passage="John 17.19" id="John.17.19"/><sup>19</sup>And for their sakes I sanctify myself, that they themselves also may be sanctified in truth. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.17.20" data-parsed="John_17_20_0_0" data-passage="John 17.20" id="John.17.20"/><sup>20</sup>Neither for these only do I pray, but for them also that believe on me through their word; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.17.21" data-parsed="John_17_21_0_0" data-passage="John 17.21" id="John.17.21"/><sup>21</sup>that they may all be one; even as thou, Father, <i>art</i> in me, and I in thee,
that they also may be in us: that the world may believe that thou didst send me. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.17.22" data-parsed="John_17_22_0_0" data-passage="John 17.22" id="John.17.22"/><sup>22</sup>And the glory which thou hast given me I have given unto them; that they may be one, even as we <i>are</i> one; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.17.23" data-parsed="John_17_23_0_0" data-passage="John 17.23" id="John.17.23"/><sup>23</sup>I in them, and thou in me,
that they may be perfected into one; that the world may know that thou didst send me, and lovedst them, even as thou lovedst me. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.17.24" data-parsed="John_17_24_0_0" data-passage="John 17.24" id="John.17.24"/><sup>24</sup>Father, I desire that they also whom thou hast given me be with me where I am, that they may behold my glory, which thou hast given me: for thou lovedst me before the foundation of the world. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.17.25" data-parsed="John_17_25_0_0" data-passage="John 17.25" id="John.17.25"/><sup>25</sup>O righteous Father, the world knew thee not,
but I knew thee; and these knew that thou didst send me; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.17.26" data-parsed="John_17_26_0_0" data-passage="John 17.26" id="John.17.26"/><sup>26</sup>and I made known unto them thy name, and will make it known; that the love wherewith thou lovedst me may be in them, and I in them.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>