<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>John 10</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">John 10</span></div><div data-next="John.11" data-prev="John.9" data-progress="86.47%" data-shorttitle="" id="John.10" title="John 10">
<h2 id="John.10-p0.1">10</h2>
<p id="John.10-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.10.1" data-parsed="John_10_1_0_0" data-passage="John 10.1" id="John.10.1"/><sup>1</sup>Verily, verily, I say unto you, He that entereth not by the door into the fold of the sheep, but climbeth up some other way, the same is a thief and a robber. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.10.2" data-parsed="John_10_2_0_0" data-passage="John 10.2" id="John.10.2"/><sup>2</sup>But he that entereth in by the door is the shepherd of the sheep. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.10.3" data-parsed="John_10_3_0_0" data-passage="John 10.3" id="John.10.3"/><sup>3</sup>To him the porter openeth; and the sheep hear his voice:
and he calleth his own sheep by name, and leadeth them out. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.10.4" data-parsed="John_10_4_0_0" data-passage="John 10.4" id="John.10.4"/><sup>4</sup>When he hath put forth all his own, he goeth before them, and the sheep follow him: for they know his voice. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.10.5" data-parsed="John_10_5_0_0" data-passage="John 10.5" id="John.10.5"/><sup>5</sup>And a stranger will they not follow, but will flee from him: for they know not the voice of strangers. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.10.6" data-parsed="John_10_6_0_0" data-passage="John 10.6" id="John.10.6"/><sup>6</sup>This parable spake Jesus unto them: but they understood not what things they were which he spake unto them. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.10.7" data-parsed="John_10_7_0_0" data-passage="John 10.7" id="John.10.7"/><sup>7</sup>Jesus therefore said unto them again, Verily, verily, I say unto you, I am the door of the sheep. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.10.8" data-parsed="John_10_8_0_0" data-passage="John 10.8" id="John.10.8"/><sup>8</sup>All that came before me are thieves and robbers: but the sheep did not hear them. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.10.9" data-parsed="John_10_9_0_0" data-passage="John 10.9" id="John.10.9"/><sup>9</sup>I am the door; by me if any man enter in, he shall be saved, and shall go in and go out, and shall find pasture. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.10.10" data-parsed="John_10_10_0_0" data-passage="John 10.10" id="John.10.10"/><sup>10</sup>The thief cometh not, but that he may steal, and kill, and destroy: I came that they may have life, and may have <i>it</i>
abundantly. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.10.11" data-parsed="John_10_11_0_0" data-passage="John 10.11" id="John.10.11"/><sup>11</sup>I am the good shepherd: the good shepherd layeth down his life for the sheep. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.10.12" data-parsed="John_10_12_0_0" data-passage="John 10.12" id="John.10.12"/><sup>12</sup>He that is a hireling, and not a shepherd, whose own the sheep are not, beholdeth the wolf coming, and leaveth the sheep, and fleeth, and the wolf snatcheth them, and scattereth <i>them</i>:

<span data-osisref="Bible:John.10.13" data-parsed="John_10_13_0_0" data-passage="John 10.13" id="John.10.13"/><sup>13</sup><i>he fleeth</i> because he is a hireling, and careth not for the sheep. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.10.14" data-parsed="John_10_14_0_0" data-passage="John 10.14" id="John.10.14"/><sup>14</sup>I am the good shepherd; and I know mine own, and mine own know me, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.10.15" data-parsed="John_10_15_0_0" data-passage="John 10.15" id="John.10.15"/><sup>15</sup>even as the Father knoweth me, and I know the Father; and I lay down my life for the sheep. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.10.16" data-parsed="John_10_16_0_0" data-passage="John 10.16" id="John.10.16"/><sup>16</sup>And other sheep I have, which are not of this fold: them also I must bring, and they shall hear my voice: and they shall become one flock, one shepherd. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.10.17" data-parsed="John_10_17_0_0" data-passage="John 10.17" id="John.10.17"/><sup>17</sup>Therefore doth the Father love me, because I lay down my life, that I may take it again. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.10.18" data-parsed="John_10_18_0_0" data-passage="John 10.18" id="John.10.18"/><sup>18</sup>No one taketh it away from me, but I lay it down of myself. I have power to lay it down,
and I have power to take it again. This commandment received I from my Father. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.10.19" data-parsed="John_10_19_0_0" data-passage="John 10.19" id="John.10.19"/><sup>19</sup>There arose a division again among the Jews because of these words. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.10.20" data-parsed="John_10_20_0_0" data-passage="John 10.20" id="John.10.20"/><sup>20</sup>And many of them said, He hath a demon, and is mad; why hear ye him? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.10.21" data-parsed="John_10_21_0_0" data-passage="John 10.21" id="John.10.21"/><sup>21</sup>Others said, These are not the sayings of one possessed with a demon. Can a demon open the eyes of the blind? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.10.22" data-parsed="John_10_22_0_0" data-passage="John 10.22" id="John.10.22"/><sup>22</sup>And it was the feast of the dedication at Jerusalem: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.10.23" data-parsed="John_10_23_0_0" data-passage="John 10.23" id="John.10.23"/><sup>23</sup>it was winter; and Jesus was walking in the temple in Solomon's porch. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.10.24" data-parsed="John_10_24_0_0" data-passage="John 10.24" id="John.10.24"/><sup>24</sup>The Jews therefore came round about him,
and said unto him, How long dost thou hold us in suspense? If thou art the Christ, tell us plainly. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.10.25" data-parsed="John_10_25_0_0" data-passage="John 10.25" id="John.10.25"/><sup>25</sup>Jesus answered them, I told you, and ye believe not: the works that I do in my Father's name, these bear witness of me. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.10.26" data-parsed="John_10_26_0_0" data-passage="John 10.26" id="John.10.26"/><sup>26</sup>But ye believe not, because ye are not of my sheep. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.10.27" data-parsed="John_10_27_0_0" data-passage="John 10.27" id="John.10.27"/><sup>27</sup>My sheep hear my voice, and I know them, and they follow me: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.10.28" data-parsed="John_10_28_0_0" data-passage="John 10.28" id="John.10.28"/><sup>28</sup>and I give unto them eternal life; and they shall never perish, and no one shall snatch them out of my hand. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.10.29" data-parsed="John_10_29_0_0" data-passage="John 10.29" id="John.10.29"/><sup>29</sup>My Father, who hath given <i>them</i> unto me, is greater than all; and no one is able to snatch <i>them</i> out of the Father's hand. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.10.30" data-parsed="John_10_30_0_0" data-passage="John 10.30" id="John.10.30"/><sup>30</sup>I and the Father are one. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.10.31" data-parsed="John_10_31_0_0" data-passage="John 10.31" id="John.10.31"/><sup>31</sup>The Jews took up stones again to stone him. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.10.32" data-parsed="John_10_32_0_0" data-passage="John 10.32" id="John.10.32"/><sup>32</sup>Jesus answered them, Many good works have I showed you from the Father; for which of those works do ye stone me? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.10.33" data-parsed="John_10_33_0_0" data-passage="John 10.33" id="John.10.33"/><sup>33</sup>The Jews answered him, For a good work we stone thee not, but for blasphemy; and because that thou, being a man, makest thyself God. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.10.34" data-parsed="John_10_34_0_0" data-passage="John 10.34" id="John.10.34"/><sup>34</sup>Jesus answered them, Is it not written in your law, I said, ye are gods? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.10.35" data-parsed="John_10_35_0_0" data-passage="John 10.35" id="John.10.35"/><sup>35</sup>If he called them gods, unto whom the word of God came (and the span cannot be broken), 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.10.36" data-parsed="John_10_36_0_0" data-passage="John 10.36" id="John.10.36"/><sup>36</sup>say ye of him, whom the Father sanctified and sent into the world, Thou blasphemest; because I said, I am <i>the</i> Son of God?

<span data-osisref="Bible:John.10.37" data-parsed="John_10_37_0_0" data-passage="John 10.37" id="John.10.37"/><sup>37</sup>If I do not the works of my Father, believe me not. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.10.38" data-parsed="John_10_38_0_0" data-passage="John 10.38" id="John.10.38"/><sup>38</sup>But if I do them, though ye believe not me, believe the works: that ye may know and understand that the Father is in me, and I in the Father. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.10.39" data-parsed="John_10_39_0_0" data-passage="John 10.39" id="John.10.39"/><sup>39</sup>They sought again to take him: and he went forth out of their hand. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.10.40" data-parsed="John_10_40_0_0" data-passage="John 10.40" id="John.10.40"/><sup>40</sup>And he went away again beyond the Jordan into the place where John was at the first baptizing; and there be abode. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.10.41" data-parsed="John_10_41_0_0" data-passage="John 10.41" id="John.10.41"/><sup>41</sup>And many came unto him; and they said,
John indeed did no sign: but all things whatsoever John spake of this man were true. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.10.42" data-parsed="John_10_42_0_0" data-passage="John 10.42" id="John.10.42"/><sup>42</sup>And many believed on him there.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>