<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>John 9</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">John 9</span></div><div data-next="John.10" data-prev="John.8" data-progress="86.37%" data-shorttitle="" id="John.9" title="John 9">
<h2 id="John.9-p0.1">9</h2>
<p id="John.9-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.9.1" data-parsed="John_9_1_0_0" data-passage="John 9.1" id="John.9.1"/><sup>1</sup>And as he passed by, he saw a man blind from his birth. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.9.2" data-parsed="John_9_2_0_0" data-passage="John 9.2" id="John.9.2"/><sup>2</sup>And his disciples asked him, saying, Rabbi, who sinned, this man, or his parents,
that he should be born blind? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.9.3" data-parsed="John_9_3_0_0" data-passage="John 9.3" id="John.9.3"/><sup>3</sup>Jesus answered, Neither did this man sin,
nor his parents: but that the works of God should be made manifest in him.

<span data-osisref="Bible:John.9.4" data-parsed="John_9_4_0_0" data-passage="John 9.4" id="John.9.4"/><sup>4</sup>We must work the works of him that sent me, while it is day: the night cometh, when no man can work. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.9.5" data-parsed="John_9_5_0_0" data-passage="John 9.5" id="John.9.5"/><sup>5</sup>When I am in the world, I am the light of the world. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.9.6" data-parsed="John_9_6_0_0" data-passage="John 9.6" id="John.9.6"/><sup>6</sup>When he had thus spoken, he spat on the ground, and made clay of the spittle, and anointed his eyes with the clay, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.9.7" data-parsed="John_9_7_0_0" data-passage="John 9.7" id="John.9.7"/><sup>7</sup>and said unto him,
Go, wash in the pool of Siloam (which is by interpretation, Sent). He went away therefore, and washed, and came seeing. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.9.8" data-parsed="John_9_8_0_0" data-passage="John 9.8" id="John.9.8"/><sup>8</sup>The neighbors therefore,
and they that saw him aforetime, that he was a beggar, said, Is not this he that sat and begged? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.9.9" data-parsed="John_9_9_0_0" data-passage="John 9.9" id="John.9.9"/><sup>9</sup>Others said, It is he: others said, No, but he is like him. He said, I am <i>he</i>. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.9.10" data-parsed="John_9_10_0_0" data-passage="John 9.10" id="John.9.10"/><sup>10</sup>They said therefore unto him, How then were thine eyes opened? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.9.11" data-parsed="John_9_11_0_0" data-passage="John 9.11" id="John.9.11"/><sup>11</sup>He answered, The man that is called Jesus made clay, and anointed mine eyes, and said unto me, Go to Siloam, and wash:
so I went away and washed, and I received sight. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.9.12" data-parsed="John_9_12_0_0" data-passage="John 9.12" id="John.9.12"/><sup>12</sup>And they said unto him, Where is he? He saith, I know not. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.9.13" data-parsed="John_9_13_0_0" data-passage="John 9.13" id="John.9.13"/><sup>13</sup>They bring to the Pharisees him that aforetime was blind. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.9.14" data-parsed="John_9_14_0_0" data-passage="John 9.14" id="John.9.14"/><sup>14</sup>Now it was the sabbath on the day when Jesus made the clay, and opened his eyes. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.9.15" data-parsed="John_9_15_0_0" data-passage="John 9.15" id="John.9.15"/><sup>15</sup>Again therefore the Pharisees also asked him how he received his sight. And he said unto them, He put clay upon mine eyes, and I washed, and I see. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.9.16" data-parsed="John_9_16_0_0" data-passage="John 9.16" id="John.9.16"/><sup>16</sup>Some therefore of the Pharisees said, This man is not from God, because he keepeth not the sabbath. But others said, How can a man that is a sinner do such signs? And there was division among them. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.9.17" data-parsed="John_9_17_0_0" data-passage="John 9.17" id="John.9.17"/><sup>17</sup>They say therefore unto the blind man again, What sayest thou of him, in that he opened thine eyes? And he said, He is a prophet. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.9.18" data-parsed="John_9_18_0_0" data-passage="John 9.18" id="John.9.18"/><sup>18</sup>The Jews therefore did not believe concerning him, that he had been blind, and had received his sight, until they called the parents of him that had received his sight, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.9.19" data-parsed="John_9_19_0_0" data-passage="John 9.19" id="John.9.19"/><sup>19</sup>and asked them, saying, Is this your son,
who ye say was born blind? How then doth he now see? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.9.20" data-parsed="John_9_20_0_0" data-passage="John 9.20" id="John.9.20"/><sup>20</sup>His parents answered and said, We know that this is our son, and that he was born blind:

<span data-osisref="Bible:John.9.21" data-parsed="John_9_21_0_0" data-passage="John 9.21" id="John.9.21"/><sup>21</sup>but how he now seeth, we know not; or who opened his eyes, we know not:
ask him; he is of age; he shall speak for himself. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.9.22" data-parsed="John_9_22_0_0" data-passage="John 9.22" id="John.9.22"/><sup>22</sup>These things said his parents, because they feared the Jews: for the Jews had agreed already,
that if any man should confess him <i>to be</i> Christ, he should be put out of the synagogue. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.9.23" data-parsed="John_9_23_0_0" data-passage="John 9.23" id="John.9.23"/><sup>23</sup>Therefore said his parents, He is of age; ask him.

<span data-osisref="Bible:John.9.24" data-parsed="John_9_24_0_0" data-passage="John 9.24" id="John.9.24"/><sup>24</sup>So they called a second time the man that was blind, and said unto him,
Give glory to God: we know that this man is a sinner. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.9.25" data-parsed="John_9_25_0_0" data-passage="John 9.25" id="John.9.25"/><sup>25</sup>He therefore answered, Whether he is a sinner, I know not: one thing I know, that, whereas I was blind, now I see. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.9.26" data-parsed="John_9_26_0_0" data-passage="John 9.26" id="John.9.26"/><sup>26</sup>They said therefore unto him, What did he to thee? How opened he thine eyes? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.9.27" data-parsed="John_9_27_0_0" data-passage="John 9.27" id="John.9.27"/><sup>27</sup>He answered them, I told you even now,
and ye did not hear; wherefore would ye hear it again? would ye also become his disciples? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.9.28" data-parsed="John_9_28_0_0" data-passage="John 9.28" id="John.9.28"/><sup>28</sup>And they reviled him, and said, Thou art his disciple;
but we are disciples of Moses. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.9.29" data-parsed="John_9_29_0_0" data-passage="John 9.29" id="John.9.29"/><sup>29</sup>We know that God hath spoken unto Moses:
but as for this man, we know not whence he is. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.9.30" data-parsed="John_9_30_0_0" data-passage="John 9.30" id="John.9.30"/><sup>30</sup>The man answered and said unto them, Why, herein is the marvel, that ye know not whence he is, and <i>yet</i> he opened mine eyes. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.9.31" data-parsed="John_9_31_0_0" data-passage="John 9.31" id="John.9.31"/><sup>31</sup>We know that God heareth not sinners:
but if any man be a worshipper of God, and do his will, him he heareth.

<span data-osisref="Bible:John.9.32" data-parsed="John_9_32_0_0" data-passage="John 9.32" id="John.9.32"/><sup>32</sup>Since the world began it was never heard that any one opened the eyes of a man born blind. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.9.33" data-parsed="John_9_33_0_0" data-passage="John 9.33" id="John.9.33"/><sup>33</sup>If this man were not from God, he could do nothing. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.9.34" data-parsed="John_9_34_0_0" data-passage="John 9.34" id="John.9.34"/><sup>34</sup>They answered and said unto him, Thou wast altogether born in sins, and dost thou teach us? And they cast him out. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.9.35" data-parsed="John_9_35_0_0" data-passage="John 9.35" id="John.9.35"/><sup>35</sup>Jesus heard that they had cast him out; and finding him, he said, Dost thou believe on the Son of God? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.9.36" data-parsed="John_9_36_0_0" data-passage="John 9.36" id="John.9.36"/><sup>36</sup>He answered and said, And who is he, Lord, that I may believe on him? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.9.37" data-parsed="John_9_37_0_0" data-passage="John 9.37" id="John.9.37"/><sup>37</sup>Jesus said unto him, Thou hast both seen him, and he it is that speaketh with thee. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.9.38" data-parsed="John_9_38_0_0" data-passage="John 9.38" id="John.9.38"/><sup>38</sup>And he said, Lord, I believe. And he worshipped him. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.9.39" data-parsed="John_9_39_0_0" data-passage="John 9.39" id="John.9.39"/><sup>39</sup>And Jesus said, For judgment came I into this world, that they that see not may see; and that they that see may become blind. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.9.40" data-parsed="John_9_40_0_0" data-passage="John 9.40" id="John.9.40"/><sup>40</sup>Those of the Pharisees who were with him heard these things, and said unto him, Are we also blind? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.9.41" data-parsed="John_9_41_0_0" data-passage="John 9.41" id="John.9.41"/><sup>41</sup>Jesus said unto them, If ye were blind, ye would have no sin: but now ye say, We see: your sin remaineth.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>