<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>John 6</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">John 6</span></div><div data-next="John.7" data-prev="John.5" data-progress="85.91%" data-shorttitle="" id="John.6" title="John 6">
<h2 id="John.6-p0.1">6</h2>
<p id="John.6-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.6.1" data-parsed="John_6_1_0_0" data-passage="John 6.1" id="John.6.1"/><sup>1</sup>After these things Jesus went away to the other side of the sea of Galilee, which is <i>the sea</i> of Tiberias. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.6.2" data-parsed="John_6_2_0_0" data-passage="John 6.2" id="John.6.2"/><sup>2</sup>And a great multitude followed him, because they beheld the signs which he did on them that were sick. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.6.3" data-parsed="John_6_3_0_0" data-passage="John 6.3" id="John.6.3"/><sup>3</sup>And Jesus went up into the mountain, and there he sat with his disciples. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.6.4" data-parsed="John_6_4_0_0" data-passage="John 6.4" id="John.6.4"/><sup>4</sup>Now the passover, the feast of the Jews, was at hand.

<span data-osisref="Bible:John.6.5" data-parsed="John_6_5_0_0" data-passage="John 6.5" id="John.6.5"/><sup>5</sup>Jesus therefore lifting up his eyes, and seeing that a great multitude cometh unto him, saith unto Philip, Whence are we to buy bread, that these may eat? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.6.6" data-parsed="John_6_6_0_0" data-passage="John 6.6" id="John.6.6"/><sup>6</sup>And this he said to prove him: for he himself knew what he would do. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.6.7" data-parsed="John_6_7_0_0" data-passage="John 6.7" id="John.6.7"/><sup>7</sup>Philip answered him, Two hundred shillings' worth of bread is not sufficient for them, that every one may take a little. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.6.8" data-parsed="John_6_8_0_0" data-passage="John 6.8" id="John.6.8"/><sup>8</sup>One of his disciples, Andrew, Simon Peter's brother, saith unto him, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.6.9" data-parsed="John_6_9_0_0" data-passage="John 6.9" id="John.6.9"/><sup>9</sup>There is a lad here, who hath five barley loaves, and two fishes: but what are these among so many? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.6.10" data-parsed="John_6_10_0_0" data-passage="John 6.10" id="John.6.10"/><sup>10</sup>Jesus said, Make the people sit down. Now there was much grass in the place. So the men sat down, in number about five thousand. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.6.11" data-parsed="John_6_11_0_0" data-passage="John 6.11" id="John.6.11"/><sup>11</sup>Jesus therefore took the loaves; and having given thanks, he distributed to them that were set down; likewise also of the fishes as much as they would.

<span data-osisref="Bible:John.6.12" data-parsed="John_6_12_0_0" data-passage="John 6.12" id="John.6.12"/><sup>12</sup>And when they were filled, he saith unto his disciples, Gather up the broken pieces which remain over, that nothing be lost. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.6.13" data-parsed="John_6_13_0_0" data-passage="John 6.13" id="John.6.13"/><sup>13</sup>So they gathered them up, and filled twelve baskets with broken pieces from the five barley loaves, which remained over unto them that had eaten. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.6.14" data-parsed="John_6_14_0_0" data-passage="John 6.14" id="John.6.14"/><sup>14</sup>When therefore the people saw the sign which he did, they said, This is of a truth the prophet that cometh into the world. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.6.15" data-parsed="John_6_15_0_0" data-passage="John 6.15" id="John.6.15"/><sup>15</sup>Jesus therefore perceiving that they were about to come and take him by force, to make him king, withdrew again into the mountain himself alone. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.6.16" data-parsed="John_6_16_0_0" data-passage="John 6.16" id="John.6.16"/><sup>16</sup>And when evening came, his disciples went down unto the sea; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.6.17" data-parsed="John_6_17_0_0" data-passage="John 6.17" id="John.6.17"/><sup>17</sup>and they entered into a boat, and were going over the sea unto Capernaum. And it was now dark, and Jesus had not yet come to them. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.6.18" data-parsed="John_6_18_0_0" data-passage="John 6.18" id="John.6.18"/><sup>18</sup>And the sea was rising by reason of a great wind that blew. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.6.19" data-parsed="John_6_19_0_0" data-passage="John 6.19" id="John.6.19"/><sup>19</sup>When therefore they had rowed about five and twenty or thirty furlongs, they behold Jesus walking on the sea, and drawing nigh unto the boat: and they were afraid. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.6.20" data-parsed="John_6_20_0_0" data-passage="John 6.20" id="John.6.20"/><sup>20</sup>But he saith unto them, It is I; be not afraid. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.6.21" data-parsed="John_6_21_0_0" data-passage="John 6.21" id="John.6.21"/><sup>21</sup>They were willing therefore to receive him into the boat: and straightway the boat was at the land whither they were going. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.6.22" data-parsed="John_6_22_0_0" data-passage="John 6.22" id="John.6.22"/><sup>22</sup>On the morrow the multitude that stood on the other side of the sea saw that there was no other boat there, save one, and that Jesus entered not with his disciples into the boat, but <i>that</i> his disciples went away alone

<span data-osisref="Bible:John.6.23" data-parsed="John_6_23_0_0" data-passage="John 6.23" id="John.6.23"/><sup>23</sup>(howbeit there came boats from Tiberias nigh unto the place where they ate the bread after the Lord had given thanks): 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.6.24" data-parsed="John_6_24_0_0" data-passage="John 6.24" id="John.6.24"/><sup>24</sup>when the multitude therefore saw that Jesus was not there, neither his disciples, they themselves got into the boats, and came to Capernaum, seeking Jesus.

<span data-osisref="Bible:John.6.25" data-parsed="John_6_25_0_0" data-passage="John 6.25" id="John.6.25"/><sup>25</sup>And when they found him on the other side of the sea, they said unto him, Rabbi, when camest thou hither? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.6.26" data-parsed="John_6_26_0_0" data-passage="John 6.26" id="John.6.26"/><sup>26</sup>Jesus answered them and said,
Verily, verily, I say unto you, Ye seek me, not because ye saw signs, but because ye ate of the loaves, and were filled. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.6.27" data-parsed="John_6_27_0_0" data-passage="John 6.27" id="John.6.27"/><sup>27</sup>Work not for the food which perisheth, but for the food which abideth unto eternal life, which the Son of man shall give unto you: for him the Father, even God, hath sealed.

<span data-osisref="Bible:John.6.28" data-parsed="John_6_28_0_0" data-passage="John 6.28" id="John.6.28"/><sup>28</sup>They said therefore unto him, What must we do, that we may work the works of God? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.6.29" data-parsed="John_6_29_0_0" data-passage="John 6.29" id="John.6.29"/><sup>29</sup>Jesus answered and said unto them, This is the work of God, that ye believe on him whom he hath sent. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.6.30" data-parsed="John_6_30_0_0" data-passage="John 6.30" id="John.6.30"/><sup>30</sup>They said therefore unto him, What then doest thou for a sign, that we may see, and believe thee? what workest thou? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.6.31" data-parsed="John_6_31_0_0" data-passage="John 6.31" id="John.6.31"/><sup>31</sup>Our fathers ate the manna in the wilderness; as it is written, He gave them bread out of heaven to eat. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.6.32" data-parsed="John_6_32_0_0" data-passage="John 6.32" id="John.6.32"/><sup>32</sup>Jesus therefore said unto them, Verily, verily, I say unto you, It was not Moses that gave you the bread out of heaven; but my Father giveth you the true bread out of heaven.

<span data-osisref="Bible:John.6.33" data-parsed="John_6_33_0_0" data-passage="John 6.33" id="John.6.33"/><sup>33</sup>For the bread of God is that which cometh down out of heaven, and giveth life unto the world. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.6.34" data-parsed="John_6_34_0_0" data-passage="John 6.34" id="John.6.34"/><sup>34</sup>They said therefore unto him, Lord,
evermore give us this bread. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.6.35" data-parsed="John_6_35_0_0" data-passage="John 6.35" id="John.6.35"/><sup>35</sup>Jesus said unto them. I am the bread of life: he that cometh to me shall not hunger, and he that believeth on me shall never thirst. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.6.36" data-parsed="John_6_36_0_0" data-passage="John 6.36" id="John.6.36"/><sup>36</sup>But I said unto you, that ye have seen me, and yet believe not. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.6.37" data-parsed="John_6_37_0_0" data-passage="John 6.37" id="John.6.37"/><sup>37</sup>All that which the Father giveth me shall come unto me;
and him that cometh to me I will in no wise cast out. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.6.38" data-parsed="John_6_38_0_0" data-passage="John 6.38" id="John.6.38"/><sup>38</sup>For I am come down from heaven, not to do mine own will, but the will of him that sent me.

<span data-osisref="Bible:John.6.39" data-parsed="John_6_39_0_0" data-passage="John 6.39" id="John.6.39"/><sup>39</sup>And this is the will of him that sent me, that of all that which he hath given me I should lose nothing, but should raise it up at the last day.

<span data-osisref="Bible:John.6.40" data-parsed="John_6_40_0_0" data-passage="John 6.40" id="John.6.40"/><sup>40</sup>For this is the will of my Father, that every one that beholdeth the Son, and believeth on him, should have eternal life; and I will raise him up at the last day. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.6.41" data-parsed="John_6_41_0_0" data-passage="John 6.41" id="John.6.41"/><sup>41</sup>The Jews therefore murmured concerning him, because he said, I am the bread which came down out of heaven. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.6.42" data-parsed="John_6_42_0_0" data-passage="John 6.42" id="John.6.42"/><sup>42</sup>And they said, Is not this Jesus, the son of Joseph, whose father and mother we know? how doth he now say, I am come down out of heaven? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.6.43" data-parsed="John_6_43_0_0" data-passage="John 6.43" id="John.6.43"/><sup>43</sup>Jesus answered and said unto them, Murmur not among yourselves. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.6.44" data-parsed="John_6_44_0_0" data-passage="John 6.44" id="John.6.44"/><sup>44</sup>No man can come to me, except the Father that sent me draw him: and I will raise him up in the last day.

<span data-osisref="Bible:John.6.45" data-parsed="John_6_45_0_0" data-passage="John 6.45" id="John.6.45"/><sup>45</sup>It is written in the prophets, And they shall all be taught of God.
Every one that hath heard from the Father, and hath learned, cometh unto me.

<span data-osisref="Bible:John.6.46" data-parsed="John_6_46_0_0" data-passage="John 6.46" id="John.6.46"/><sup>46</sup>Not that any man hath seen the Father, save he that is from God, he hath seen the Father. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.6.47" data-parsed="John_6_47_0_0" data-passage="John 6.47" id="John.6.47"/><sup>47</sup>Verily, verily, I say unto you, He that believeth hath eternal life. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.6.48" data-parsed="John_6_48_0_0" data-passage="John 6.48" id="John.6.48"/><sup>48</sup>I am the bread of life. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.6.49" data-parsed="John_6_49_0_0" data-passage="John 6.49" id="John.6.49"/><sup>49</sup>Your fathers ate the manna in the wilderness, and they died. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.6.50" data-parsed="John_6_50_0_0" data-passage="John 6.50" id="John.6.50"/><sup>50</sup>This is the bread which cometh down out of heaven, that a man may eat thereof, and not die. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.6.51" data-parsed="John_6_51_0_0" data-passage="John 6.51" id="John.6.51"/><sup>51</sup>I am the living bread which came down out of heaven: if any man eat of this bread, he shall live for ever: yea and the bread which I will give is my flesh, for the life of the world. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.6.52" data-parsed="John_6_52_0_0" data-passage="John 6.52" id="John.6.52"/><sup>52</sup>The Jews therefore strove one with another, saying,
How can this man give us his flesh to eat? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.6.53" data-parsed="John_6_53_0_0" data-passage="John 6.53" id="John.6.53"/><sup>53</sup>Jesus therefore said unto them, Verily, verily, I say unto you, Except ye eat the flesh of the Son of man and drink his blood, ye have not life in yourselves. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.6.54" data-parsed="John_6_54_0_0" data-passage="John 6.54" id="John.6.54"/><sup>54</sup>He that eateth my flesh and drinketh my blood hath eternal life: and I will raise him up at the last day. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.6.55" data-parsed="John_6_55_0_0" data-passage="John 6.55" id="John.6.55"/><sup>55</sup>For my flesh is meat indeed, and my blood is drink indeed. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.6.56" data-parsed="John_6_56_0_0" data-passage="John 6.56" id="John.6.56"/><sup>56</sup>He that eateth my flesh and drinketh my blood abideth in me,
and I in him. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.6.57" data-parsed="John_6_57_0_0" data-passage="John 6.57" id="John.6.57"/><sup>57</sup>As the living Father sent me, and I live because of the Father; so he that eateth me, he also shall live because of me. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.6.58" data-parsed="John_6_58_0_0" data-passage="John 6.58" id="John.6.58"/><sup>58</sup>This is the bread which came down out of heaven: not as the fathers ate, and died; he that eateth this bread shall live for ever. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.6.59" data-parsed="John_6_59_0_0" data-passage="John 6.59" id="John.6.59"/><sup>59</sup>These things said he in the synagogue, as he taught in Capernaum. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.6.60" data-parsed="John_6_60_0_0" data-passage="John 6.60" id="John.6.60"/><sup>60</sup>Many therefore of his disciples,
when they heard <i>this</i>, said, This is a hard saying; who can hear it?

<span data-osisref="Bible:John.6.61" data-parsed="John_6_61_0_0" data-passage="John 6.61" id="John.6.61"/><sup>61</sup>But Jesus knowing in himself that his disciples murmured at this, said unto them, Doth this cause you to stumble? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.6.62" data-parsed="John_6_62_0_0" data-passage="John 6.62" id="John.6.62"/><sup>62</sup><i>What</i> then if ye should behold the Son of man ascending where he was before? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.6.63" data-parsed="John_6_63_0_0" data-passage="John 6.63" id="John.6.63"/><sup>63</sup>It is the spirit that giveth life; the flesh profiteth nothing: the words that I have spoken unto you are spirit, and are life. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.6.64" data-parsed="John_6_64_0_0" data-passage="John 6.64" id="John.6.64"/><sup>64</sup>But there are some of you that believe not. For Jesus knew from the beginning who they were that believed not, and who it was that should betray him. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.6.65" data-parsed="John_6_65_0_0" data-passage="John 6.65" id="John.6.65"/><sup>65</sup>And he said, For this cause have I said unto you, that no man can come unto me, except it be given unto him of the Father. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.6.66" data-parsed="John_6_66_0_0" data-passage="John 6.66" id="John.6.66"/><sup>66</sup>Upon this many of his disciples went back, and walked no more with him. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.6.67" data-parsed="John_6_67_0_0" data-passage="John 6.67" id="John.6.67"/><sup>67</sup>Jesus said therefore unto the twelve, Would ye also go away? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.6.68" data-parsed="John_6_68_0_0" data-passage="John 6.68" id="John.6.68"/><sup>68</sup>Simon Peter answered him, Lord, to whom shall we go? thou hast the words of eternal life. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.6.69" data-parsed="John_6_69_0_0" data-passage="John 6.69" id="John.6.69"/><sup>69</sup>And we have believed and know that thou art the Holy One of God. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.6.70" data-parsed="John_6_70_0_0" data-passage="John 6.70" id="John.6.70"/><sup>70</sup>Jesus answered them, Did not I choose you the twelve, and one of you is a devil? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.6.71" data-parsed="John_6_71_0_0" data-passage="John 6.71" id="John.6.71"/><sup>71</sup>Now he spake of Judas <i>the son</i> of Simon Iscariot, for he it was that should betray him, <i>being</i> one of the twelve.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>