<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>John 4</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">John 4</span></div><div data-next="John.5" data-prev="John.3" data-progress="85.65%" data-shorttitle="" id="John.4" title="John 4">
<h2 id="John.4-p0.1">4</h2>
<p id="John.4-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.4.1" data-parsed="John_4_1_0_0" data-passage="John 4.1" id="John.4.1"/><sup>1</sup>When therefore the Lord knew that the Pharisees had heard that Jesus was making and baptizing more disciples than John 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.4.2" data-parsed="John_4_2_0_0" data-passage="John 4.2" id="John.4.2"/><sup>2</sup>(although Jesus himself baptized not, but his disciples), 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.4.3" data-parsed="John_4_3_0_0" data-passage="John 4.3" id="John.4.3"/><sup>3</sup>he left Judea, and departed again into Galilee. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.4.4" data-parsed="John_4_4_0_0" data-passage="John 4.4" id="John.4.4"/><sup>4</sup>And he must needs pass through Samaria. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.4.5" data-parsed="John_4_5_0_0" data-passage="John 4.5" id="John.4.5"/><sup>5</sup>So he cometh to a city of Samaria, called Sychar, near to the parcel of ground that Jacob gave to his son Joseph: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.4.6" data-parsed="John_4_6_0_0" data-passage="John 4.6" id="John.4.6"/><sup>6</sup>and Jacob's well was there. Jesus therefore, being wearied with his journey, sat thus by the well. It was about the sixth hour.

<span data-osisref="Bible:John.4.7" data-parsed="John_4_7_0_0" data-passage="John 4.7" id="John.4.7"/><sup>7</sup>There cometh a woman of Samaria to draw water: Jesus saith unto her,
Give me to drink. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.4.8" data-parsed="John_4_8_0_0" data-passage="John 4.8" id="John.4.8"/><sup>8</sup>For his disciples were gone away into the city to buy food. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.4.9" data-parsed="John_4_9_0_0" data-passage="John 4.9" id="John.4.9"/><sup>9</sup>The Samaritan woman therefore saith unto him, How is it that thou,
being a Jew, askest drink of me, who am a Samaritan woman? (For Jews have no dealings with Samaritans.) 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.4.10" data-parsed="John_4_10_0_0" data-passage="John 4.10" id="John.4.10"/><sup>10</sup>Jesus answered and said unto her, If thou knewest the gift of God, and who it is that saith to thee, Give me to drink; thou wouldest have asked of him, and he would have given thee living water. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.4.11" data-parsed="John_4_11_0_0" data-passage="John 4.11" id="John.4.11"/><sup>11</sup>The woman saith unto him, Sir, thou hast nothing to draw with,
and the well is deep: whence then hast thou that living water? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.4.12" data-parsed="John_4_12_0_0" data-passage="John 4.12" id="John.4.12"/><sup>12</sup>Art thou greater than our father Jacob, who gave us the well, and drank thereof himself, and his sons, and his cattle? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.4.13" data-parsed="John_4_13_0_0" data-passage="John 4.13" id="John.4.13"/><sup>13</sup>Jesus answered and said unto her, Every one that drinketh of this water shall thirst again: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.4.14" data-parsed="John_4_14_0_0" data-passage="John 4.14" id="John.4.14"/><sup>14</sup>but whosoever drinketh of the water that I shall give him shall never thirst; but the water that I shall give him shall become in him a well of water springing up unto eternal life. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.4.15" data-parsed="John_4_15_0_0" data-passage="John 4.15" id="John.4.15"/><sup>15</sup>The woman saith unto him, Sir, give me this water, that I thirst not, neither come all the way hither to draw.

<span data-osisref="Bible:John.4.16" data-parsed="John_4_16_0_0" data-passage="John 4.16" id="John.4.16"/><sup>16</sup>Jesus saith unto her, Go, call thy husband, and come hither. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.4.17" data-parsed="John_4_17_0_0" data-passage="John 4.17" id="John.4.17"/><sup>17</sup>The woman answered and said unto him, I have no husband. Jesus saith unto her,
Thou saidst well, I have no husband: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.4.18" data-parsed="John_4_18_0_0" data-passage="John 4.18" id="John.4.18"/><sup>18</sup>for thou hast had five husbands;
and he whom thou now hast is not thy husband: this hast thou said truly.

<span data-osisref="Bible:John.4.19" data-parsed="John_4_19_0_0" data-passage="John 4.19" id="John.4.19"/><sup>19</sup>The woman saith unto him, Sir, I perceive that thou art a prophet.

<span data-osisref="Bible:John.4.20" data-parsed="John_4_20_0_0" data-passage="John 4.20" id="John.4.20"/><sup>20</sup>Our fathers worshipped in this mountain; and ye say, that in Jerusalem is the place where men ought to worship. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.4.21" data-parsed="John_4_21_0_0" data-passage="John 4.21" id="John.4.21"/><sup>21</sup>Jesus saith unto her, Woman,
believe me, the hour cometh, when neither in this mountain, nor in Jerusalem,
shall ye worship the Father. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.4.22" data-parsed="John_4_22_0_0" data-passage="John 4.22" id="John.4.22"/><sup>22</sup>Ye worship that which ye know not: we worship that which we know; for salvation is from the Jews. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.4.23" data-parsed="John_4_23_0_0" data-passage="John 4.23" id="John.4.23"/><sup>23</sup>But the hour cometh, and now is, when the true worshippers shall worship the Father in spirit and truth: for such doth the Father seek to be his worshippers.

<span data-osisref="Bible:John.4.24" data-parsed="John_4_24_0_0" data-passage="John 4.24" id="John.4.24"/><sup>24</sup>God is a Spirit: and they that worship him must worship in spirit and truth. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.4.25" data-parsed="John_4_25_0_0" data-passage="John 4.25" id="John.4.25"/><sup>25</sup>The woman saith unto him, I know that Messiah cometh (he that is called Christ): when he is come, he will declare unto us all things.

<span data-osisref="Bible:John.4.26" data-parsed="John_4_26_0_0" data-passage="John 4.26" id="John.4.26"/><sup>26</sup>Jesus saith unto her, I that speak unto thee am <i>he</i>. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.4.27" data-parsed="John_4_27_0_0" data-passage="John 4.27" id="John.4.27"/><sup>27</sup>And upon this came his disciples; and they marvelled that he was speaking with a woman; yet no man said, What seekest thou? or, Why speakest thou with her?

<span data-osisref="Bible:John.4.28" data-parsed="John_4_28_0_0" data-passage="John 4.28" id="John.4.28"/><sup>28</sup>So the woman left her waterpot, and went away into the city, and saith to the people, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.4.29" data-parsed="John_4_29_0_0" data-passage="John 4.29" id="John.4.29"/><sup>29</sup>Come, see a man, who told me all things that <i>ever</i> I did: can this be the Christ? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.4.30" data-parsed="John_4_30_0_0" data-passage="John 4.30" id="John.4.30"/><sup>30</sup>They went out of the city,
and were coming to him. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.4.31" data-parsed="John_4_31_0_0" data-passage="John 4.31" id="John.4.31"/><sup>31</sup>In the mean while the disciples prayed him,
saying, Rabbi, eat. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.4.32" data-parsed="John_4_32_0_0" data-passage="John 4.32" id="John.4.32"/><sup>32</sup>But he said unto them, I have meat to eat that ye know not. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.4.33" data-parsed="John_4_33_0_0" data-passage="John 4.33" id="John.4.33"/><sup>33</sup>The disciples therefore said one to another, Hath any man brought him <i>aught</i> to eat? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.4.34" data-parsed="John_4_34_0_0" data-passage="John 4.34" id="John.4.34"/><sup>34</sup>Jesus saith unto them, My meat is to do the will of him that sent me, and to accomplish his work. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.4.35" data-parsed="John_4_35_0_0" data-passage="John 4.35" id="John.4.35"/><sup>35</sup>Say not ye, There are yet four months, and <i>then</i> cometh the harvest? behold, I say unto you, Lift up your eyes, and look on the fields, that they are white already unto harvest. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.4.36" data-parsed="John_4_36_0_0" data-passage="John 4.36" id="John.4.36"/><sup>36</sup>He that reapeth receiveth wages, and gathereth fruit unto life eternal; that he that soweth and he that reapeth may rejoice together. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.4.37" data-parsed="John_4_37_0_0" data-passage="John 4.37" id="John.4.37"/><sup>37</sup>For herein is the saying true, One soweth, and another reapeth. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.4.38" data-parsed="John_4_38_0_0" data-passage="John 4.38" id="John.4.38"/><sup>38</sup>I sent you to reap that whereon ye have not labored: others have labored, and ye are entered into their labor. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.4.39" data-parsed="John_4_39_0_0" data-passage="John 4.39" id="John.4.39"/><sup>39</sup>And from that city many of the Samaritans believed on him because of the word of the woman, who testified, He told me all things that <i>ever</i> I did. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.4.40" data-parsed="John_4_40_0_0" data-passage="John 4.40" id="John.4.40"/><sup>40</sup>So when the Samaritans came unto him, they besought him to abide with them: and he abode there two days. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.4.41" data-parsed="John_4_41_0_0" data-passage="John 4.41" id="John.4.41"/><sup>41</sup>And many more believed because of his word; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.4.42" data-parsed="John_4_42_0_0" data-passage="John 4.42" id="John.4.42"/><sup>42</sup>and they said to the woman, Now we believe, not because of thy speaking: for we have heard for ourselves, and know that this is indeed the Saviour of the world. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.4.43" data-parsed="John_4_43_0_0" data-passage="John 4.43" id="John.4.43"/><sup>43</sup>And after the two days he went forth from thence into Galilee.

<span data-osisref="Bible:John.4.44" data-parsed="John_4_44_0_0" data-passage="John 4.44" id="John.4.44"/><sup>44</sup>For Jesus himself testified, that a prophet hath no honor in his own country. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.4.45" data-parsed="John_4_45_0_0" data-passage="John 4.45" id="John.4.45"/><sup>45</sup>So when he came into Galilee, the Galilaeans received him,
having seen all the things that he did in Jerusalem at the feast: for they also went unto the feast. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.4.46" data-parsed="John_4_46_0_0" data-passage="John 4.46" id="John.4.46"/><sup>46</sup>He came therefore again unto Cana of Galilee,
where he made the water wine. And there was a certain nobleman, whose son was sick at Capernaum. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.4.47" data-parsed="John_4_47_0_0" data-passage="John 4.47" id="John.4.47"/><sup>47</sup>When he heard that Jesus was come out of Judaea into Galilee, he went unto him, and besought <i>him</i> that he would come down,
and heal his son; for he was at the point of death. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.4.48" data-parsed="John_4_48_0_0" data-passage="John 4.48" id="John.4.48"/><sup>48</sup>Jesus therefore said unto him, Except ye see signs and wonders, ye will in no wise believe.

<span data-osisref="Bible:John.4.49" data-parsed="John_4_49_0_0" data-passage="John 4.49" id="John.4.49"/><sup>49</sup>The nobleman saith unto him, Sir, come down ere my child die.

<span data-osisref="Bible:John.4.50" data-parsed="John_4_50_0_0" data-passage="John 4.50" id="John.4.50"/><sup>50</sup>Jesus saith unto him, Go thy way; thy son liveth. The man believed the word that Jesus spake unto him, and he went his way. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.4.51" data-parsed="John_4_51_0_0" data-passage="John 4.51" id="John.4.51"/><sup>51</sup>And as he was now going down, his servants met him, saying, that his son lived. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.4.52" data-parsed="John_4_52_0_0" data-passage="John 4.52" id="John.4.52"/><sup>52</sup>So he inquired of them the hour when he began to amend. They said therefore unto him, Yesterday at the seventh hour the fever left him. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.4.53" data-parsed="John_4_53_0_0" data-passage="John 4.53" id="John.4.53"/><sup>53</sup>So the father knew that <i>it was</i> at that hour in which Jesus said unto him, Thy son liveth: and himself believed, and his whole house. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.4.54" data-parsed="John_4_54_0_0" data-passage="John 4.54" id="John.4.54"/><sup>54</sup>This is again the second sign that Jesus did, having come out of Judaea into Galilee.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>