<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>John 15</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">John 15</span></div><div data-next="John.16" data-prev="John.14" data-progress="87.03%" data-shorttitle="" id="John.15" title="John 15">
<h2 id="John.15-p0.1">15</h2>
<p id="John.15-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.15.1" data-parsed="John_15_1_0_0" data-passage="John 15.1" id="John.15.1"/><sup>1</sup>I am the true vine, and my Father is the husbandman. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.15.2" data-parsed="John_15_2_0_0" data-passage="John 15.2" id="John.15.2"/><sup>2</sup>Every branch in me that beareth not fruit, he taketh it away: and every <i>branch</i> that beareth fruit, he cleanseth it, that it may bear more fruit. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.15.3" data-parsed="John_15_3_0_0" data-passage="John 15.3" id="John.15.3"/><sup>3</sup>Already ye are clean because of the word which I have spoken unto you. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.15.4" data-parsed="John_15_4_0_0" data-passage="John 15.4" id="John.15.4"/><sup>4</sup>Abide in me, and I in you. As the branch cannot bear fruit of itself, except it abide in the vine; so neither can ye, except ye abide in me. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.15.5" data-parsed="John_15_5_0_0" data-passage="John 15.5" id="John.15.5"/><sup>5</sup>I am the vine, ye are the branches: He that abideth in me, and I in him, the same beareth much fruit: for apart from me ye can do nothing.

<span data-osisref="Bible:John.15.6" data-parsed="John_15_6_0_0" data-passage="John 15.6" id="John.15.6"/><sup>6</sup>If a man abide not in me, he is cast forth as a branch, and is withered;
and they gather them, and cast them into the fire, and they are burned.

<span data-osisref="Bible:John.15.7" data-parsed="John_15_7_0_0" data-passage="John 15.7" id="John.15.7"/><sup>7</sup>If ye abide in me, and my words abide in you, ask whatsoever ye will,
and it shall be done unto you. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.15.8" data-parsed="John_15_8_0_0" data-passage="John 15.8" id="John.15.8"/><sup>8</sup>Herein is my Father glorified, that ye bear much fruit; and <i>so</i> shall ye be my disciples. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.15.9" data-parsed="John_15_9_0_0" data-passage="John 15.9" id="John.15.9"/><sup>9</sup>Even as the Father hath loved me, I also have loved you: abide ye in my love. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.15.10" data-parsed="John_15_10_0_0" data-passage="John 15.10" id="John.15.10"/><sup>10</sup>If ye keep my commandments, ye shall abide in my love; even as I have kept my Father's commandments, and abide in his love. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.15.11" data-parsed="John_15_11_0_0" data-passage="John 15.11" id="John.15.11"/><sup>11</sup>These things have I spoken unto you, that my joy may be in you, and <i>that</i> your joy may be made full. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.15.12" data-parsed="John_15_12_0_0" data-passage="John 15.12" id="John.15.12"/><sup>12</sup>This is my commandment, that ye love one another, even as I have loved you. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.15.13" data-parsed="John_15_13_0_0" data-passage="John 15.13" id="John.15.13"/><sup>13</sup>Greater love hath no man than this, that a man lay down his life for his friends. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.15.14" data-parsed="John_15_14_0_0" data-passage="John 15.14" id="John.15.14"/><sup>14</sup>Ye are my friends, if ye do the things which I command you. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.15.15" data-parsed="John_15_15_0_0" data-passage="John 15.15" id="John.15.15"/><sup>15</sup>No longer do I call you servants; for the servant knoweth not what his lord doeth: but I have called you friends; for all things that I heard from my Father, I have made known unto you. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.15.16" data-parsed="John_15_16_0_0" data-passage="John 15.16" id="John.15.16"/><sup>16</sup>Ye did not choose me, but I chose you, and appointed you, that ye should go and bear fruit, and <i>that</i> your fruit should abide: that whatsoever ye shall ask of the Father in my name, he may give it you. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.15.17" data-parsed="John_15_17_0_0" data-passage="John 15.17" id="John.15.17"/><sup>17</sup>These things I command you, that ye may love one another. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.15.18" data-parsed="John_15_18_0_0" data-passage="John 15.18" id="John.15.18"/><sup>18</sup>If the world hateth you, ye know that it hath hated me before <i>it hated</i> you. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.15.19" data-parsed="John_15_19_0_0" data-passage="John 15.19" id="John.15.19"/><sup>19</sup>If ye were of the world, the world would love its own: but because ye are not of the world, but I chose you out of the world, therefore the world hateth you. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.15.20" data-parsed="John_15_20_0_0" data-passage="John 15.20" id="John.15.20"/><sup>20</sup>Remember the word that I said unto you, A servant is not greater than his lord. If they persecuted me, they will also persecute you; if they kept my word, they will keep yours also. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.15.21" data-parsed="John_15_21_0_0" data-passage="John 15.21" id="John.15.21"/><sup>21</sup>But all these things will they do unto you for my name's sake, because they know not him that sent me. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.15.22" data-parsed="John_15_22_0_0" data-passage="John 15.22" id="John.15.22"/><sup>22</sup>If I had not come and spoken unto them, they had not had sin: but now they have no excuse for their sin. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.15.23" data-parsed="John_15_23_0_0" data-passage="John 15.23" id="John.15.23"/><sup>23</sup>He that hateth me hateth my Father also. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.15.24" data-parsed="John_15_24_0_0" data-passage="John 15.24" id="John.15.24"/><sup>24</sup>If I had not done among them the works which none other did, they had not had sin: but now have they both seen and hated both me and my Father. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.15.25" data-parsed="John_15_25_0_0" data-passage="John 15.25" id="John.15.25"/><sup>25</sup>But <i>this cometh to pass</i>, that the word may be fulfilled that is written in their law, They hated me without a cause. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.15.26" data-parsed="John_15_26_0_0" data-passage="John 15.26" id="John.15.26"/><sup>26</sup>But when the Comforter is come,
whom I will send unto you from the Father, <i>even</i> the Spirit of truth,
which proceedeth from the Father, he shall bear witness of me: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.15.27" data-parsed="John_15_27_0_0" data-passage="John 15.27" id="John.15.27"/><sup>27</sup>and ye also bear witness, because ye have been with me from the beginning.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>