<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>John 7</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">John 7</span></div><div data-next="John.8" data-prev="John.6" data-progress="86.09%" data-shorttitle="" id="John.7" title="John 7">
<h2 id="John.7-p0.1">7</h2>
<p id="John.7-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.7.1" data-parsed="John_7_1_0_0" data-passage="John 7.1" id="John.7.1"/><sup>1</sup>And after these things Jesus walked in Galilee: for he would not walk in Judaea, because the Jews sought to kill him. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.7.2" data-parsed="John_7_2_0_0" data-passage="John 7.2" id="John.7.2"/><sup>2</sup>Now the feast of the Jews, the feast of tabernacles, was at hand. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.7.3" data-parsed="John_7_3_0_0" data-passage="John 7.3" id="John.7.3"/><sup>3</sup>His brethren therefore said unto him, Depart hence, and go into Judaea, that thy disciples also may behold thy works which thou doest. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.7.4" data-parsed="John_7_4_0_0" data-passage="John 7.4" id="John.7.4"/><sup>4</sup>For no man doeth anything in secret,
and himself seeketh to be known openly. If thou doest these things, manifest thyself to the world. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.7.5" data-parsed="John_7_5_0_0" data-passage="John 7.5" id="John.7.5"/><sup>5</sup>For even his brethren did not believe on him.

<span data-osisref="Bible:John.7.6" data-parsed="John_7_6_0_0" data-passage="John 7.6" id="John.7.6"/><sup>6</sup>Jesus therefore saith unto them, My time is not yet come; but your time is always ready. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.7.7" data-parsed="John_7_7_0_0" data-passage="John 7.7" id="John.7.7"/><sup>7</sup>The world cannot hate you; but me it hateth, because I testify of it, that its works are evil. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.7.8" data-parsed="John_7_8_0_0" data-passage="John 7.8" id="John.7.8"/><sup>8</sup>Go ye up unto the feast: I go not up unto this feast; because my time is not yet fulfilled. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.7.9" data-parsed="John_7_9_0_0" data-passage="John 7.9" id="John.7.9"/><sup>9</sup>And having said these things unto them, he abode <i>still</i> in Galilee. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.7.10" data-parsed="John_7_10_0_0" data-passage="John 7.10" id="John.7.10"/><sup>10</sup>But when his brethren were gone up unto the feast, then went he also up, not publicly, but as it were in secret. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.7.11" data-parsed="John_7_11_0_0" data-passage="John 7.11" id="John.7.11"/><sup>11</sup>The Jews therefore sought him at the feast, and said, Where is he? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.7.12" data-parsed="John_7_12_0_0" data-passage="John 7.12" id="John.7.12"/><sup>12</sup>And there was much murmuring among the multitudes concerning him: some said, He is a good man; others said, Not so, but he leadeth the multitude astray. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.7.13" data-parsed="John_7_13_0_0" data-passage="John 7.13" id="John.7.13"/><sup>13</sup>Yet no man spake openly of him for fear of the Jews. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.7.14" data-parsed="John_7_14_0_0" data-passage="John 7.14" id="John.7.14"/><sup>14</sup>But when it was now the midst of the feast Jesus went up into the temple, and taught. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.7.15" data-parsed="John_7_15_0_0" data-passage="John 7.15" id="John.7.15"/><sup>15</sup>The Jews therefore marvelled,
saying, How knoweth this man letters, having never learned? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.7.16" data-parsed="John_7_16_0_0" data-passage="John 7.16" id="John.7.16"/><sup>16</sup>Jesus therefore answered them and said, My teaching is not mine, but his that sent me. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.7.17" data-parsed="John_7_17_0_0" data-passage="John 7.17" id="John.7.17"/><sup>17</sup>If any man willeth to do his will, he shall know of the teaching,
whether it is of God, or <i>whether</i> I speak from myself. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.7.18" data-parsed="John_7_18_0_0" data-passage="John 7.18" id="John.7.18"/><sup>18</sup>He that speaketh from himself seeketh his own glory: but he that seeketh the glory of him that sent him, the same is true, and no unrighteousness is in him.

<span data-osisref="Bible:John.7.19" data-parsed="John_7_19_0_0" data-passage="John 7.19" id="John.7.19"/><sup>19</sup>Did not Moses give you the law, and <i>yet</i> none of you doeth the law? Why seek ye to kill me? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.7.20" data-parsed="John_7_20_0_0" data-passage="John 7.20" id="John.7.20"/><sup>20</sup>The multitude answered, Thou hast a demon:
who seeketh to kill thee? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.7.21" data-parsed="John_7_21_0_0" data-passage="John 7.21" id="John.7.21"/><sup>21</sup>Jesus answered and said unto them, I did one work, and ye all marvel because thereof. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.7.22" data-parsed="John_7_22_0_0" data-passage="John 7.22" id="John.7.22"/><sup>22</sup>Moses hath given you circumcision (not that it is of Moses, but of the fathers); and on the sabbath ye circumcise a man. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.7.23" data-parsed="John_7_23_0_0" data-passage="John 7.23" id="John.7.23"/><sup>23</sup>If a man receiveth circumcision on the sabbath, that the law of Moses may not be broken; are ye wroth with me,
because I made a man every whit whole on the sabbath? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.7.24" data-parsed="John_7_24_0_0" data-passage="John 7.24" id="John.7.24"/><sup>24</sup>Judge not according to appearance, but judge righteous judgment. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.7.25" data-parsed="John_7_25_0_0" data-passage="John 7.25" id="John.7.25"/><sup>25</sup>Some therefore of them of Jerusalem said, Is not this he whom they seek to kill? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.7.26" data-parsed="John_7_26_0_0" data-passage="John 7.26" id="John.7.26"/><sup>26</sup>And lo, he speaketh openly, and they say nothing unto him. Can it be that the rulers indeed know that this is the Christ? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.7.27" data-parsed="John_7_27_0_0" data-passage="John 7.27" id="John.7.27"/><sup>27</sup>Howbeit we know this man whence he is: but when the Christ cometh, no one knoweth whence he is.

<span data-osisref="Bible:John.7.28" data-parsed="John_7_28_0_0" data-passage="John 7.28" id="John.7.28"/><sup>28</sup>Jesus therefore cried in the temple, teaching and saying, Ye both know me, and know whence I am; and I am not come of myself, but he that sent me is true, whom ye know not. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.7.29" data-parsed="John_7_29_0_0" data-passage="John 7.29" id="John.7.29"/><sup>29</sup>I know him; because I am from him, and he sent me. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.7.30" data-parsed="John_7_30_0_0" data-passage="John 7.30" id="John.7.30"/><sup>30</sup>They sought therefore to take him: and no man laid his hand on him,
because his hour was not yet come. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.7.31" data-parsed="John_7_31_0_0" data-passage="John 7.31" id="John.7.31"/><sup>31</sup>But of the multitude many believed on him; and they said, When the Christ shall come, will he do more signs than those which this man hath done? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.7.32" data-parsed="John_7_32_0_0" data-passage="John 7.32" id="John.7.32"/><sup>32</sup>The Pharisees heard the multitude murmuring these things concerning him; and the chief priests and the Pharisees sent officers to take him. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.7.33" data-parsed="John_7_33_0_0" data-passage="John 7.33" id="John.7.33"/><sup>33</sup>Jesus therefore said, Yet a little while am I with you, and I go unto him that sent me. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.7.34" data-parsed="John_7_34_0_0" data-passage="John 7.34" id="John.7.34"/><sup>34</sup>Ye shall seek me,
and shall not find me: and where I am, ye cannot come. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.7.35" data-parsed="John_7_35_0_0" data-passage="John 7.35" id="John.7.35"/><sup>35</sup>The Jews therefore said among themselves, Whither will this man go that we shall not find him? will he go unto the Dispersion among the Greeks, and teach the Greeks? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.7.36" data-parsed="John_7_36_0_0" data-passage="John 7.36" id="John.7.36"/><sup>36</sup>What is this word that he said, Ye shall seek me, and shall not find me; and where I am, ye cannot come? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.7.37" data-parsed="John_7_37_0_0" data-passage="John 7.37" id="John.7.37"/><sup>37</sup>Now on the last day, the great <i>day</i> of the feast, Jesus stood and cried, saying, If any man thirst,
let him come unto me and drink. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.7.38" data-parsed="John_7_38_0_0" data-passage="John 7.38" id="John.7.38"/><sup>38</sup>He that believeth on me, as the span hath said, from within him shall flow rivers of living water.

<span data-osisref="Bible:John.7.39" data-parsed="John_7_39_0_0" data-passage="John 7.39" id="John.7.39"/><sup>39</sup>But this spake he of the Spirit, which they that believed on him were to receive: for the Spirit was not yet <i>given</i>; because Jesus was not yet glorified. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.7.40" data-parsed="John_7_40_0_0" data-passage="John 7.40" id="John.7.40"/><sup>40</sup><i>Some</i> of the multitude therefore, when they heard these words, said, This is of a truth the prophet. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.7.41" data-parsed="John_7_41_0_0" data-passage="John 7.41" id="John.7.41"/><sup>41</sup>Others said, This is the Christ. But some said, What, doth the Christ come out of Galilee?

<span data-osisref="Bible:John.7.42" data-parsed="John_7_42_0_0" data-passage="John 7.42" id="John.7.42"/><sup>42</sup>Hath not the span said that the Christ cometh of the seed of David, and from Bethlehem, the village where David was? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.7.43" data-parsed="John_7_43_0_0" data-passage="John 7.43" id="John.7.43"/><sup>43</sup>So there arose a division in the multitude because of him. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.7.44" data-parsed="John_7_44_0_0" data-passage="John 7.44" id="John.7.44"/><sup>44</sup>And some of them would have taken him; but no man laid hands on him. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.7.45" data-parsed="John_7_45_0_0" data-passage="John 7.45" id="John.7.45"/><sup>45</sup>The officers therefore came to the chief priests and Pharisees; and they said unto them, Why did ye not bring him? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.7.46" data-parsed="John_7_46_0_0" data-passage="John 7.46" id="John.7.46"/><sup>46</sup>The officers answered, Never a man so spake. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.7.47" data-parsed="John_7_47_0_0" data-passage="John 7.47" id="John.7.47"/><sup>47</sup>The Pharisees therefore answered them, Are ye also led astray? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.7.48" data-parsed="John_7_48_0_0" data-passage="John 7.48" id="John.7.48"/><sup>48</sup>Hath any of the rulers believed on him, or of the Pharisees? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.7.49" data-parsed="John_7_49_0_0" data-passage="John 7.49" id="John.7.49"/><sup>49</sup>But this multitude that knoweth not the law are accursed. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.7.50" data-parsed="John_7_50_0_0" data-passage="John 7.50" id="John.7.50"/><sup>50</sup>Nicodemus saith unto them (he that came to him before, being one of them), 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.7.51" data-parsed="John_7_51_0_0" data-passage="John 7.51" id="John.7.51"/><sup>51</sup>Doth our law judge a man,
except it first hear from himself and know what he doeth? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.7.52" data-parsed="John_7_52_0_0" data-passage="John 7.52" id="John.7.52"/><sup>52</sup>They answered and said unto him, Art thou also of Galilee? Search, and see that out of Galilee ariseth no prophet.</p>
<p id="John.7-p2">
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.7.53" data-parsed="John_7_53_0_0" data-passage="John 7.53" id="John.7.53"/><sup>53</sup>And they went every man unto his own house:</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>