<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>John 16</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">John 16</span></div><div data-next="John.17" data-prev="John.15" data-progress="87.10%" data-shorttitle="" id="John.16" title="John 16">
<h2 id="John.16-p0.1">16</h2>
<p id="John.16-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.16.1" data-parsed="John_16_1_0_0" data-passage="John 16.1" id="John.16.1"/><sup>1</sup>These things have I spoken unto you, that ye should not be caused to stumble. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.16.2" data-parsed="John_16_2_0_0" data-passage="John 16.2" id="John.16.2"/><sup>2</sup>They shall put you out of the synagogues: yea, the hour cometh, that whosoever killeth you shall think that he offereth service unto God. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.16.3" data-parsed="John_16_3_0_0" data-passage="John 16.3" id="John.16.3"/><sup>3</sup>And these things will they do, because they have not known the Father, nor me. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.16.4" data-parsed="John_16_4_0_0" data-passage="John 16.4" id="John.16.4"/><sup>4</sup>But these things have I spoken unto you, that when their hour is come, ye may remember them, how that I told you. And these things I said not unto you from the beginning, because I was with you. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.16.5" data-parsed="John_16_5_0_0" data-passage="John 16.5" id="John.16.5"/><sup>5</sup>But now I go unto him that sent me; and none of you asketh me, Whither goest thou?

<span data-osisref="Bible:John.16.6" data-parsed="John_16_6_0_0" data-passage="John 16.6" id="John.16.6"/><sup>6</sup>But because I have spoken these things unto you, sorrow hath filled your heart. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.16.7" data-parsed="John_16_7_0_0" data-passage="John 16.7" id="John.16.7"/><sup>7</sup>Nevertheless I tell you the truth: It is expedient for you that I go away; for if I go not away, the Comforter will not come unto you; but if I go, I will send him unto you. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.16.8" data-parsed="John_16_8_0_0" data-passage="John 16.8" id="John.16.8"/><sup>8</sup>And he, when he is come, will convict the world in respect of sin, and of righteousness, and of judgment: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.16.9" data-parsed="John_16_9_0_0" data-passage="John 16.9" id="John.16.9"/><sup>9</sup>of sin,
because they believe not on me; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.16.10" data-parsed="John_16_10_0_0" data-passage="John 16.10" id="John.16.10"/><sup>10</sup>of righteousness, because I go to the Father, and ye behold me no more; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.16.11" data-parsed="John_16_11_0_0" data-passage="John 16.11" id="John.16.11"/><sup>11</sup>of judgment, because the prince of this world hath been judged. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.16.12" data-parsed="John_16_12_0_0" data-passage="John 16.12" id="John.16.12"/><sup>12</sup>I have yet many things to say unto you,
but ye cannot bear them now. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.16.13" data-parsed="John_16_13_0_0" data-passage="John 16.13" id="John.16.13"/><sup>13</sup>Howbeit when he, the Spirit of truth, is come, he shall guide you into all the truth: for he shall not speak from himself; but what things soever he shall hear, <i>these</i> shall he speak:
and he shall declare unto you the things that are to come. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.16.14" data-parsed="John_16_14_0_0" data-passage="John 16.14" id="John.16.14"/><sup>14</sup>He shall glorify me: for he shall take of mine, and shall declare <i>it</i> unto you.

<span data-osisref="Bible:John.16.15" data-parsed="John_16_15_0_0" data-passage="John 16.15" id="John.16.15"/><sup>15</sup>All things whatsoever the Father hath are mine: therefore said I, that he taketh of mine, and shall declare <i>it</i> unto you. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.16.16" data-parsed="John_16_16_0_0" data-passage="John 16.16" id="John.16.16"/><sup>16</sup>A little while, and ye behold me no more; and again a little while, and ye shall see me. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.16.17" data-parsed="John_16_17_0_0" data-passage="John 16.17" id="John.16.17"/><sup>17</sup><i>Some</i> of his disciples therefore said one to another, What is this that he saith unto us, A little while, and ye behold me not; and again a little while, and ye shall see me: and, Because I go to the Father?

<span data-osisref="Bible:John.16.18" data-parsed="John_16_18_0_0" data-passage="John 16.18" id="John.16.18"/><sup>18</sup>They said therefore, What is this that he saith, A little while? We know not what he saith. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.16.19" data-parsed="John_16_19_0_0" data-passage="John 16.19" id="John.16.19"/><sup>19</sup>Jesus perceived that they were desirous to ask him, and he said unto them, Do ye inquire among yourselves concerning this,
that I said, A little while, and ye behold me not, and again a little while,
and ye shall see me? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.16.20" data-parsed="John_16_20_0_0" data-passage="John 16.20" id="John.16.20"/><sup>20</sup>Verily, verily, I say unto you, that ye shall weep and lament, but the world shall rejoice: ye shall be sorrowful, but your sorrow shall be turned into joy. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.16.21" data-parsed="John_16_21_0_0" data-passage="John 16.21" id="John.16.21"/><sup>21</sup>A woman when she is in travail hath sorrow, because her hour is come: but when she is delivered of the child, she remembereth no more the anguish, for the joy that a man is born into the world. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.16.22" data-parsed="John_16_22_0_0" data-passage="John 16.22" id="John.16.22"/><sup>22</sup>And ye therefore now have sorrow: but I will see you again, and your heart shall rejoice, and your joy no one taketh away from you. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.16.23" data-parsed="John_16_23_0_0" data-passage="John 16.23" id="John.16.23"/><sup>23</sup>And in that day ye shall ask me no question. Verily, verily, I say unto you, if ye shall ask anything of the Father, he will give it you in my name.

<span data-osisref="Bible:John.16.24" data-parsed="John_16_24_0_0" data-passage="John 16.24" id="John.16.24"/><sup>24</sup>Hitherto have ye asked nothing in my name: ask, and ye shall receive,
that your joy may be made full. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.16.25" data-parsed="John_16_25_0_0" data-passage="John 16.25" id="John.16.25"/><sup>25</sup>These things have I spoken unto you in dark sayings: the hour cometh, when I shall no more speak unto you in dark sayings, but shall tell you plainly of the Father. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.16.26" data-parsed="John_16_26_0_0" data-passage="John 16.26" id="John.16.26"/><sup>26</sup>In that day ye shall ask in my name: and I say not unto you, that I will pray the Father for you;

<span data-osisref="Bible:John.16.27" data-parsed="John_16_27_0_0" data-passage="John 16.27" id="John.16.27"/><sup>27</sup>for the Father himself loveth you, because ye have loved me, and have believed that I came forth from the Father. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.16.28" data-parsed="John_16_28_0_0" data-passage="John 16.28" id="John.16.28"/><sup>28</sup>I came out from the Father,
and am come into the world: again, I leave the world, and go unto the Father.

<span data-osisref="Bible:John.16.29" data-parsed="John_16_29_0_0" data-passage="John 16.29" id="John.16.29"/><sup>29</sup>His disciples say, Lo, now speakest thou plainly, and speakest no dark saying. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.16.30" data-parsed="John_16_30_0_0" data-passage="John 16.30" id="John.16.30"/><sup>30</sup>Now know we that thou knowest all things, and needest not that any man should ask thee: by this we believe that thou camest forth from God.

<span data-osisref="Bible:John.16.31" data-parsed="John_16_31_0_0" data-passage="John 16.31" id="John.16.31"/><sup>31</sup>Jesus answered them, Do ye now believe? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.16.32" data-parsed="John_16_32_0_0" data-passage="John 16.32" id="John.16.32"/><sup>32</sup>Behold, the hour cometh,
yea, is come, that ye shall be scattered, every man to his own, and shall leave me alone: and <i>yet</i> I am not alone, because the Father is with me. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.16.33" data-parsed="John_16_33_0_0" data-passage="John 16.33" id="John.16.33"/><sup>33</sup>These things have I spoken unto you, that in me ye may have peace.
In the world ye have tribulation: but be of good cheer; I have overcome the world.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>