<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>John 5</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">John 5</span></div><div data-next="John.6" data-prev="John.4" data-progress="85.78%" data-shorttitle="" id="John.5" title="John 5">
<h2 id="John.5-p0.1">5</h2>
<p id="John.5-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.5.1" data-parsed="John_5_1_0_0" data-passage="John 5.1" id="John.5.1"/><sup>1</sup>After these things there was a feast of the Jews; and Jesus went up to Jerusalem. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.5.2" data-parsed="John_5_2_0_0" data-passage="John 5.2" id="John.5.2"/><sup>2</sup>Now there is in Jerusalem by the sheep <i>gate</i> a pool,
which is called in Hebrew Bethesda, having five porches. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.5.3" data-parsed="John_5_3_0_0" data-passage="John 5.3" id="John.5.3"/><sup>3</sup>In these lay a multitude of them that were sick, blind, halt, withered, <i>waiting for the moving of the water.</i>
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.5.4" data-parsed="John_5_4_0_0" data-passage="John 5.4" id="John.5.4"/><sup>4</sup><i>for an angel of the Lord went down at certain seasons into the pool, and troubled the water: whosoever then first after the troubling of the waters stepped in was made whole, with whatsoever disease he was holden.</i>
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.5.5" data-parsed="John_5_5_0_0" data-passage="John 5.5" id="John.5.5"/><sup>5</sup>And a certain man was there, who had been thirty and eight years in his infirmity. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.5.6" data-parsed="John_5_6_0_0" data-passage="John 5.6" id="John.5.6"/><sup>6</sup>When Jesus saw him lying, and knew that he had been now a long time <i>in that case</i>, he saith unto him, Wouldest thou be made whole? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.5.7" data-parsed="John_5_7_0_0" data-passage="John 5.7" id="John.5.7"/><sup>7</sup>The sick man answered him, Sir, I have no man, when the water is troubled, to put me into the pool: but while I am coming, another steppeth down before me. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.5.8" data-parsed="John_5_8_0_0" data-passage="John 5.8" id="John.5.8"/><sup>8</sup>Jesus saith unto him, Arise,
take up thy bed, and walk. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.5.9" data-parsed="John_5_9_0_0" data-passage="John 5.9" id="John.5.9"/><sup>9</sup>And straightway the man was made whole, and took up his bed and walked. Now it was the sabbath on that day. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.5.10" data-parsed="John_5_10_0_0" data-passage="John 5.10" id="John.5.10"/><sup>10</sup>So the Jews said unto him that was cured, It is the sabbath, and it is not lawful for thee to take up thy bed. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.5.11" data-parsed="John_5_11_0_0" data-passage="John 5.11" id="John.5.11"/><sup>11</sup>But he answered them, He that made me whole, the same said unto me, Take up thy bed, and walk. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.5.12" data-parsed="John_5_12_0_0" data-passage="John 5.12" id="John.5.12"/><sup>12</sup>They asked him, Who is the man that said unto thee, Take up <i>thy bed</i>, and walk?

<span data-osisref="Bible:John.5.13" data-parsed="John_5_13_0_0" data-passage="John 5.13" id="John.5.13"/><sup>13</sup>But he that was healed knew not who it was; for Jesus had conveyed himself away, a multitude being in the place. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.5.14" data-parsed="John_5_14_0_0" data-passage="John 5.14" id="John.5.14"/><sup>14</sup>Afterward Jesus findeth him in the temple, and said unto him, Behold, thou art made whole: sin no more, lest a worse thing befall thee. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.5.15" data-parsed="John_5_15_0_0" data-passage="John 5.15" id="John.5.15"/><sup>15</sup>The man went away, and told the Jews that it was Jesus who had made him whole. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.5.16" data-parsed="John_5_16_0_0" data-passage="John 5.16" id="John.5.16"/><sup>16</sup>And for this cause the Jews persecuted Jesus, because he did these things on the sabbath. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.5.17" data-parsed="John_5_17_0_0" data-passage="John 5.17" id="John.5.17"/><sup>17</sup>But Jesus answered them, My Father worketh even until now, and I work. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.5.18" data-parsed="John_5_18_0_0" data-passage="John 5.18" id="John.5.18"/><sup>18</sup>For this cause therefore the Jews sought the more to kill him, because he not only brake the sabbath, but also called God his own Father, making himself equal with God. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.5.19" data-parsed="John_5_19_0_0" data-passage="John 5.19" id="John.5.19"/><sup>19</sup>Jesus therefore answered and said unto them, Verily,
verily, I say unto you, The Son can do nothing of himself, but what he seeth the Father doing: for what things soever he doeth, these the Son also doeth in like manner. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.5.20" data-parsed="John_5_20_0_0" data-passage="John 5.20" id="John.5.20"/><sup>20</sup>For the Father loveth the Son, and showeth him all things that himself doeth: and greater works than these will he show him,
that ye may marvel. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.5.21" data-parsed="John_5_21_0_0" data-passage="John 5.21" id="John.5.21"/><sup>21</sup>For as the Father raiseth the dead and giveth them life, even so the Son also giveth life to whom he will. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.5.22" data-parsed="John_5_22_0_0" data-passage="John 5.22" id="John.5.22"/><sup>22</sup>For neither doth the Father judge any man, but he hath given all judgment unto the Son;

<span data-osisref="Bible:John.5.23" data-parsed="John_5_23_0_0" data-passage="John 5.23" id="John.5.23"/><sup>23</sup>that all may honor the Son, even as they honor the Father. He that honoreth not the Son honoreth not the Father that sent him. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.5.24" data-parsed="John_5_24_0_0" data-passage="John 5.24" id="John.5.24"/><sup>24</sup>Verily,
verily, I say unto you, He that heareth my word, and believeth him that sent me, hath eternal life, and cometh not into judgment, but hath passed out of death into life. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.5.25" data-parsed="John_5_25_0_0" data-passage="John 5.25" id="John.5.25"/><sup>25</sup>Verily, verily, I say unto you, The hour cometh, and now is, when the dead shall hear the voice of the Son of God; and they that hear shall live. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.5.26" data-parsed="John_5_26_0_0" data-passage="John 5.26" id="John.5.26"/><sup>26</sup>For as the Father hath life in himself, even so gave he to the Son also to have life in himself: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.5.27" data-parsed="John_5_27_0_0" data-passage="John 5.27" id="John.5.27"/><sup>27</sup>and he gave him authority to execute judgment, because he is a son of man. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.5.28" data-parsed="John_5_28_0_0" data-passage="John 5.28" id="John.5.28"/><sup>28</sup>Marvel not at this:
for the hour cometh, in which all that are in the tombs shall hear his voice,

<span data-osisref="Bible:John.5.29" data-parsed="John_5_29_0_0" data-passage="John 5.29" id="John.5.29"/><sup>29</sup>and shall come forth; they that have done good, unto the resurrection of life; and they that have done evil, unto the resurrection of judgment.

<span data-osisref="Bible:John.5.30" data-parsed="John_5_30_0_0" data-passage="John 5.30" id="John.5.30"/><sup>30</sup>I can of myself do nothing: as I hear, I judge: and my judgment is righteous; because I seek not mine own will, but the will of him that sent me. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.5.31" data-parsed="John_5_31_0_0" data-passage="John 5.31" id="John.5.31"/><sup>31</sup>If I bear witness of myself, my witness is not true. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.5.32" data-parsed="John_5_32_0_0" data-passage="John 5.32" id="John.5.32"/><sup>32</sup>It is another that beareth witness of me; and I know that the witness which he witnesseth of me is true. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.5.33" data-parsed="John_5_33_0_0" data-passage="John 5.33" id="John.5.33"/><sup>33</sup>Ye have sent unto John, and he hath borne witness unto the truth. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.5.34" data-parsed="John_5_34_0_0" data-passage="John 5.34" id="John.5.34"/><sup>34</sup>But the witness which I receive is not from man: howbeit I say these things, that ye may be saved. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.5.35" data-parsed="John_5_35_0_0" data-passage="John 5.35" id="John.5.35"/><sup>35</sup>He was the lamp that burneth and shineth; and ye were willing to rejoice for a season in his light. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.5.36" data-parsed="John_5_36_0_0" data-passage="John 5.36" id="John.5.36"/><sup>36</sup>But the witness which I have is greater than <i>that of</i>
John; for the works which the Father hath given me to accomplish, the very works that I do, bear witness of me, that the Father hath sent me. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.5.37" data-parsed="John_5_37_0_0" data-passage="John 5.37" id="John.5.37"/><sup>37</sup>And the Father that sent me, he hath borne witness of me. Ye have neither heard his voice at any time, nor seen his form. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.5.38" data-parsed="John_5_38_0_0" data-passage="John 5.38" id="John.5.38"/><sup>38</sup>And ye have not his word abiding in you: for whom he sent, him ye believe not. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.5.39" data-parsed="John_5_39_0_0" data-passage="John 5.39" id="John.5.39"/><sup>39</sup>Ye search the spans, because ye think that in them ye have eternal life; and these are they which bear witness of me; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.5.40" data-parsed="John_5_40_0_0" data-passage="John 5.40" id="John.5.40"/><sup>40</sup>and ye will not come to me, that ye may have life. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.5.41" data-parsed="John_5_41_0_0" data-passage="John 5.41" id="John.5.41"/><sup>41</sup>I receive not glory from men. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.5.42" data-parsed="John_5_42_0_0" data-passage="John 5.42" id="John.5.42"/><sup>42</sup>But I know you, that ye have not the love of God in yourselves. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.5.43" data-parsed="John_5_43_0_0" data-passage="John 5.43" id="John.5.43"/><sup>43</sup>I am come in my Father's name,
and ye receive me not: if another shall come in his own name, him ye will receive. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.5.44" data-parsed="John_5_44_0_0" data-passage="John 5.44" id="John.5.44"/><sup>44</sup>How can ye believe, who receive glory one of another, and the glory that <i>cometh</i> from the only God ye seek not? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.5.45" data-parsed="John_5_45_0_0" data-passage="John 5.45" id="John.5.45"/><sup>45</sup>Think not that I will accuse you to the Father: there is one that accuseth you, <i>even</i>
Moses, on whom ye have set your hope. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.5.46" data-parsed="John_5_46_0_0" data-passage="John 5.46" id="John.5.46"/><sup>46</sup>For if ye believed Moses, ye would believe me; for he wrote of me. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.5.47" data-parsed="John_5_47_0_0" data-passage="John 5.47" id="John.5.47"/><sup>47</sup>But if ye believe not his writings, how shall ye believe my words?</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>