<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>John 13</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">John 13</span></div><div data-next="John.14" data-prev="John.12" data-progress="86.85%" data-shorttitle="" id="John.13" title="John 13">
<h2 id="John.13-p0.1">13</h2>
<p id="John.13-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.13.1" data-parsed="John_13_1_0_0" data-passage="John 13.1" id="John.13.1"/><sup>1</sup>Now before the feast of the passover, Jesus knowing that his hour was come that he should depart out of this world unto his Father, having loved his own that were in the world, he loved them unto the end. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.13.2" data-parsed="John_13_2_0_0" data-passage="John 13.2" id="John.13.2"/><sup>2</sup>And during supper, the devil having already put into the heart of Judas Iscariot,
Simon's <i>son</i>, to betray him, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.13.3" data-parsed="John_13_3_0_0" data-passage="John 13.3" id="John.13.3"/><sup>3</sup><i>Jesus</i>, knowing that the Father had given all the things into his hands, and that he came forth from God, and goeth unto God, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.13.4" data-parsed="John_13_4_0_0" data-passage="John 13.4" id="John.13.4"/><sup>4</sup>riseth from supper, and layeth aside his garments; and he took a towel, and girded himself. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.13.5" data-parsed="John_13_5_0_0" data-passage="John 13.5" id="John.13.5"/><sup>5</sup>Then he poureth water into the basin, and began to wash the disciples' feet, and to wipe them with the towel wherewith he was girded. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.13.6" data-parsed="John_13_6_0_0" data-passage="John 13.6" id="John.13.6"/><sup>6</sup>So he cometh to Simon Peter. He saith unto him, Lord, dost thou wash my feet? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.13.7" data-parsed="John_13_7_0_0" data-passage="John 13.7" id="John.13.7"/><sup>7</sup>Jesus answered and said unto him, What I do thou knowest not now; but thou shalt understand hereafter.

<span data-osisref="Bible:John.13.8" data-parsed="John_13_8_0_0" data-passage="John 13.8" id="John.13.8"/><sup>8</sup>Peter saith unto him, Thou shalt never wash my feet. Jesus answered him,
If I wash thee not, thou hast no part with me. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.13.9" data-parsed="John_13_9_0_0" data-passage="John 13.9" id="John.13.9"/><sup>9</sup>Simon Peter saith unto him, Lord, not my feet only, but also my hands and my head. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.13.10" data-parsed="John_13_10_0_0" data-passage="John 13.10" id="John.13.10"/><sup>10</sup>Jesus saith to him, He that is bathed needeth not save to wash his feet, but is clean every whit: and ye are clean, but not all. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.13.11" data-parsed="John_13_11_0_0" data-passage="John 13.11" id="John.13.11"/><sup>11</sup>For he knew him that should betray him; therefore said he, Ye are not all clean. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.13.12" data-parsed="John_13_12_0_0" data-passage="John 13.12" id="John.13.12"/><sup>12</sup>So when he had washed their feet, and taken his garments, and sat down again, he said unto them, Know ye what I have done to you? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.13.13" data-parsed="John_13_13_0_0" data-passage="John 13.13" id="John.13.13"/><sup>13</sup>Ye call me, Teacher, and, Lord:
and ye say well; for so I am. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.13.14" data-parsed="John_13_14_0_0" data-passage="John 13.14" id="John.13.14"/><sup>14</sup>If I then, the Lord and the Teacher, have washed your feet, ye also ought to wash one another's feet. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.13.15" data-parsed="John_13_15_0_0" data-passage="John 13.15" id="John.13.15"/><sup>15</sup>For I have given you an example, that ye also should do as I have done to you.

<span data-osisref="Bible:John.13.16" data-parsed="John_13_16_0_0" data-passage="John 13.16" id="John.13.16"/><sup>16</sup>Verily, verily, I say unto you, a servant is not greater than his lord;
neither one that is sent greater than he that sent him. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.13.17" data-parsed="John_13_17_0_0" data-passage="John 13.17" id="John.13.17"/><sup>17</sup>If ye know these things, blessed are ye if ye do them. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.13.18" data-parsed="John_13_18_0_0" data-passage="John 13.18" id="John.13.18"/><sup>18</sup>I speak not of you all: I know whom I have chosen: but that the span may be fulfilled: He that eateth my bread lifted up his heel against me. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.13.19" data-parsed="John_13_19_0_0" data-passage="John 13.19" id="John.13.19"/><sup>19</sup>From henceforth I tell you before it come to pass, that, when it is come to pass, ye may believe that I am <i>he</i>. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.13.20" data-parsed="John_13_20_0_0" data-passage="John 13.20" id="John.13.20"/><sup>20</sup>Verily, verily, I say unto you, he that receiveth whomsoever I send receiveth me; and he that receiveth me receiveth him that sent me. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.13.21" data-parsed="John_13_21_0_0" data-passage="John 13.21" id="John.13.21"/><sup>21</sup>When Jesus had thus said, he was troubled in the spirit, and testified, and said, Verily, verily, I say unto you, that one of you shall betray me. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.13.22" data-parsed="John_13_22_0_0" data-passage="John 13.22" id="John.13.22"/><sup>22</sup>The disciples looked one on another, doubting of whom he spake. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.13.23" data-parsed="John_13_23_0_0" data-passage="John 13.23" id="John.13.23"/><sup>23</sup>There was at the table reclining in Jesus' bosom one of his disciples, whom Jesus loved. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.13.24" data-parsed="John_13_24_0_0" data-passage="John 13.24" id="John.13.24"/><sup>24</sup>Simon Peter therefore beckoneth to him,
and saith unto him, Tell <i>us</i> who it is of whom he speaketh. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.13.25" data-parsed="John_13_25_0_0" data-passage="John 13.25" id="John.13.25"/><sup>25</sup>He leaning back, as he was, on Jesus' breast saith unto him, Lord, who is it?

<span data-osisref="Bible:John.13.26" data-parsed="John_13_26_0_0" data-passage="John 13.26" id="John.13.26"/><sup>26</sup>Jesus therefore answereth, He it is, for whom I shall dip the sop, and give it him. So when he had dipped the sop, he taketh and giveth it to Judas,
<i>the son</i> of Simon Iscariot. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.13.27" data-parsed="John_13_27_0_0" data-passage="John 13.27" id="John.13.27"/><sup>27</sup>And after the sop, then entered Satan into him. Jesus therefore saith unto him, What thou doest, do quickly.

<span data-osisref="Bible:John.13.28" data-parsed="John_13_28_0_0" data-passage="John 13.28" id="John.13.28"/><sup>28</sup>Now no man at the table knew for what intent he spake this unto him.

<span data-osisref="Bible:John.13.29" data-parsed="John_13_29_0_0" data-passage="John 13.29" id="John.13.29"/><sup>29</sup>For some thought, because Judas had the bag, that Jesus said unto him,
Buy what things we have need of for the feast; or, that he should give something to the poor. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.13.30" data-parsed="John_13_30_0_0" data-passage="John 13.30" id="John.13.30"/><sup>30</sup>He then having received the sop went out straightway: and it was night. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.13.31" data-parsed="John_13_31_0_0" data-passage="John 13.31" id="John.13.31"/><sup>31</sup>When therefore he was gone out, Jesus saith, Now is the Son of man glorified, and God is glorified in him;

<span data-osisref="Bible:John.13.32" data-parsed="John_13_32_0_0" data-passage="John 13.32" id="John.13.32"/><sup>32</sup>and God shall glorify him in himself, and straightway shall he glorify him. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.13.33" data-parsed="John_13_33_0_0" data-passage="John 13.33" id="John.13.33"/><sup>33</sup>Little children, yet a little while I am with you. Ye shall seek me: and as I said unto the Jews, Whither I go, ye cannot come; so now I say unto you. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.13.34" data-parsed="John_13_34_0_0" data-passage="John 13.34" id="John.13.34"/><sup>34</sup>A new commandment I give unto you, that ye love one another;
even as I have loved you, that ye also love one another. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.13.35" data-parsed="John_13_35_0_0" data-passage="John 13.35" id="John.13.35"/><sup>35</sup>By this shall all men know that ye are my disciples, if ye have love one to another.

<span data-osisref="Bible:John.13.36" data-parsed="John_13_36_0_0" data-passage="John 13.36" id="John.13.36"/><sup>36</sup>Simon Peter saith unto him, Lord, whither goest thou? Jesus answered,
Whither I go, thou canst not follow now; but thou shalt follow afterwards.

<span data-osisref="Bible:John.13.37" data-parsed="John_13_37_0_0" data-passage="John 13.37" id="John.13.37"/><sup>37</sup>Peter saith unto him, Lord, why cannot I follow thee even now? I will lay down my life for thee. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.13.38" data-parsed="John_13_38_0_0" data-passage="John 13.38" id="John.13.38"/><sup>38</sup>Jesus answereth, Wilt thou lay down thy life for me? Verily, verily, I say unto thee, The cock shall not crow, till thou hast denied me thrice.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>