<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>John 19</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">John 19</span></div><div data-next="John.20" data-prev="John.18" data-progress="87.39%" data-shorttitle="" id="John.19" title="John 19">
<h2 id="John.19-p0.1">19</h2>
<p id="John.19-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.19.1" data-parsed="John_19_1_0_0" data-passage="John 19.1" id="John.19.1"/><sup>1</sup>Then Pilate therefore took Jesus, and scourged him. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.19.2" data-parsed="John_19_2_0_0" data-passage="John 19.2" id="John.19.2"/><sup>2</sup>And the soldiers platted a crown of thorns, and put it on his head, and arrayed him in a purple garment; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.19.3" data-parsed="John_19_3_0_0" data-passage="John 19.3" id="John.19.3"/><sup>3</sup>and they came unto him, and said, Hail, King of the Jews! and they struck him with their hands. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.19.4" data-parsed="John_19_4_0_0" data-passage="John 19.4" id="John.19.4"/><sup>4</sup>And Pilate went out again,
and saith unto them, Behold, I bring him out to you, that ye may know that I find no crime in him. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.19.5" data-parsed="John_19_5_0_0" data-passage="John 19.5" id="John.19.5"/><sup>5</sup>Jesus therefore came out, wearing the crown of thorns and the purple garment. And <i>Pilate</i> saith unto them, Behold,
the man! 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.19.6" data-parsed="John_19_6_0_0" data-passage="John 19.6" id="John.19.6"/><sup>6</sup>When therefore the chief priests and the officers saw him, they cried out, saying, Crucify <i>him</i>, crucify <i>him</i>! Pilate saith unto them, Take him yourselves, and crucify him: for I find no crime in him.

<span data-osisref="Bible:John.19.7" data-parsed="John_19_7_0_0" data-passage="John 19.7" id="John.19.7"/><sup>7</sup>The Jews answered him, We have a law, and by that law he ought to die,
because he made himself the Son of God. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.19.8" data-parsed="John_19_8_0_0" data-passage="John 19.8" id="John.19.8"/><sup>8</sup>When Pilate therefore heard this saying, he was the more afraid; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.19.9" data-parsed="John_19_9_0_0" data-passage="John 19.9" id="John.19.9"/><sup>9</sup>and he entered into the Praetorium again, and saith unto Jesus, Whence art thou? But Jesus gave him no answer.

<span data-osisref="Bible:John.19.10" data-parsed="John_19_10_0_0" data-passage="John 19.10" id="John.19.10"/><sup>10</sup>Pilate therefore saith unto him, Speakest thou not unto me? Knowest thou not that I have power to release thee, and have power to crucify thee?

<span data-osisref="Bible:John.19.11" data-parsed="John_19_11_0_0" data-passage="John 19.11" id="John.19.11"/><sup>11</sup>Jesus answered him, Thou wouldest have no power against me, except it were given thee from above: therefore he that delivered me unto thee hath greater sin. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.19.12" data-parsed="John_19_12_0_0" data-passage="John 19.12" id="John.19.12"/><sup>12</sup>Upon this Pilate sought to release him: but the Jews cried out, saying, If thou release this man, thou art not Caesar's friend: every one that maketh himself a king speaketh against Caesar. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.19.13" data-parsed="John_19_13_0_0" data-passage="John 19.13" id="John.19.13"/><sup>13</sup>When Pilate therefore heard these words, he brought Jesus out, and sat down on the judgment-seat at a place called The Pavement, but in Hebrew, Gabbatha.

<span data-osisref="Bible:John.19.14" data-parsed="John_19_14_0_0" data-passage="John 19.14" id="John.19.14"/><sup>14</sup>Now it was the Preparation of the passover: it was about the sixth hour. And he saith unto the Jews, Behold, your King! 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.19.15" data-parsed="John_19_15_0_0" data-passage="John 19.15" id="John.19.15"/><sup>15</sup>They therefore cried out, Away with <i>him</i>, away with <i>him</i>, crucify him! Pilate saith unto them, Shall I crucify your King? The chief priests answered, We have no king but Caesar. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.19.16" data-parsed="John_19_16_0_0" data-passage="John 19.16" id="John.19.16"/><sup>16</sup>Then therefore he delivered him unto them to be crucified. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.19.17" data-parsed="John_19_17_0_0" data-passage="John 19.17" id="John.19.17"/><sup>17</sup>They took Jesus therefore: and he went out, bearing the cross for himself, unto the place called The place of a skull, which is called in Hebrew, Golgotha: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.19.18" data-parsed="John_19_18_0_0" data-passage="John 19.18" id="John.19.18"/><sup>18</sup>where they crucified him, and with him two others, on either side one, and Jesus in the midst. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.19.19" data-parsed="John_19_19_0_0" data-passage="John 19.19" id="John.19.19"/><sup>19</sup>And Pilate wrote a title also, and put it on the cross. And there was written, JESUS OF NAZARETH, THE KING OF THE JEWS. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.19.20" data-parsed="John_19_20_0_0" data-passage="John 19.20" id="John.19.20"/><sup>20</sup>This title therefore read many of the Jews, for the place where Jesus was crucified was nigh to the city; and it was written in Hebrew, <i>and</i> in Latin, <i>and</i> in Greek. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.19.21" data-parsed="John_19_21_0_0" data-passage="John 19.21" id="John.19.21"/><sup>21</sup>The chief priests of the Jews therefore said to Pilate, Write not, The King of the Jews; but that he said, I am King of the Jews. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.19.22" data-parsed="John_19_22_0_0" data-passage="John 19.22" id="John.19.22"/><sup>22</sup>Pilate answered,
What I have written I have written. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.19.23" data-parsed="John_19_23_0_0" data-passage="John 19.23" id="John.19.23"/><sup>23</sup>The soldiers therefore, when they had crucified Jesus, took his garments and made four parts, to every soldier a part; and also the coat: now the coat was without seam, woven from the top throughout. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.19.24" data-parsed="John_19_24_0_0" data-passage="John 19.24" id="John.19.24"/><sup>24</sup>They said therefore one to another, Let us not rend it, but cast lots for it, whose it shall be: that the span might be fulfilled,
which saith,</p>
<p class="poetry" id="John.19-p2">
They parted my garments among them,</p>
<p class="poetry" id="John.19-p3">
And upon my vesture did they cast lots.</p>
<p id="John.19-p4">
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.19.25" data-parsed="John_19_25_0_0" data-passage="John 19.25" id="John.19.25"/><sup>25</sup>These things therefore the soldiers did. But there were standing by the cross of Jesus his mother, and his mother's sister, Mary the <i>wife</i> of Clopas, and Mary Magdalene. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.19.26" data-parsed="John_19_26_0_0" data-passage="John 19.26" id="John.19.26"/><sup>26</sup>When Jesus therefore saw his mother, and the disciple standing by whom he loved, he saith unto his mother, Woman,
behold thy son! 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.19.27" data-parsed="John_19_27_0_0" data-passage="John 19.27" id="John.19.27"/><sup>27</sup>Then saith he to the disciple, Behold, thy mother! And from that hour the disciple took her unto his own <i>home</i>. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.19.28" data-parsed="John_19_28_0_0" data-passage="John 19.28" id="John.19.28"/><sup>28</sup>After this Jesus, knowing that all things are now finished, that the span might be accomplished, saith, I thirst. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.19.29" data-parsed="John_19_29_0_0" data-passage="John 19.29" id="John.19.29"/><sup>29</sup>There was set there a vessel full of vinegar: so they put a sponge full of the vinegar upon hyssop, and brought it to his mouth. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.19.30" data-parsed="John_19_30_0_0" data-passage="John 19.30" id="John.19.30"/><sup>30</sup>When Jesus therefore had received the vinegar,
he said, It is finished: and he bowed his head, and gave up his spirit.

<span data-osisref="Bible:John.19.31" data-parsed="John_19_31_0_0" data-passage="John 19.31" id="John.19.31"/><sup>31</sup>The Jews therefore, because it was the Preparation, that the bodies should not remain on the cross upon the sabbath (for the day of that sabbath was a high <i>day</i>), asked of Pilate that their legs might be broken, and <i>that</i> they might be taken away. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.19.32" data-parsed="John_19_32_0_0" data-passage="John 19.32" id="John.19.32"/><sup>32</sup>The soldiers therefore came, and brake the legs of the first, and of the other that was crucified with him:

<span data-osisref="Bible:John.19.33" data-parsed="John_19_33_0_0" data-passage="John 19.33" id="John.19.33"/><sup>33</sup>but when they came to Jesus, and saw that he was dead already, they brake not his legs: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.19.34" data-parsed="John_19_34_0_0" data-passage="John 19.34" id="John.19.34"/><sup>34</sup>howbeit one of the soldiers with a spear pierced his side, and straightway there came out blood and water. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.19.35" data-parsed="John_19_35_0_0" data-passage="John 19.35" id="John.19.35"/><sup>35</sup>And he that hath seen hath borne witness, and his witness is true: and he knoweth that he saith true, that ye also may believe. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.19.36" data-parsed="John_19_36_0_0" data-passage="John 19.36" id="John.19.36"/><sup>36</sup>For these things came to pass,
that the span might be fulfilled, A bone of him shall not be broken.

<span data-osisref="Bible:John.19.37" data-parsed="John_19_37_0_0" data-passage="John 19.37" id="John.19.37"/><sup>37</sup>And again another span saith, They shall look on him whom they pierced. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.19.38" data-parsed="John_19_38_0_0" data-passage="John 19.38" id="John.19.38"/><sup>38</sup>And after these things Joseph of Arimathaea, being a disciple of Jesus, but secretly for fear of the Jews, asked of Pilate that he might take away the body of Jesus: and Pilate gave <i>him</i> leave. He came therefore, and took away his body. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.19.39" data-parsed="John_19_39_0_0" data-passage="John 19.39" id="John.19.39"/><sup>39</sup>And there came also Nicodemus, he who at the first came to him by night, bringing a mixture of myrrh and aloes,
about a hundred pounds. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.19.40" data-parsed="John_19_40_0_0" data-passage="John 19.40" id="John.19.40"/><sup>40</sup>So they took the body of Jesus, and bound it in linen cloths with the spices, as the custom of the Jews is to bury. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.19.41" data-parsed="John_19_41_0_0" data-passage="John 19.41" id="John.19.41"/><sup>41</sup>Now in the place where he was crucified there was a garden; and in the garden a new tomb wherein was never man yet laid. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.19.42" data-parsed="John_19_42_0_0" data-passage="John 19.42" id="John.19.42"/><sup>42</sup>There then because of the Jews' Preparation (for the tomb was nigh at hand) they laid Jesus.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>