<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>John 8</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">John 8</span></div><div data-next="John.9" data-prev="John.7" data-progress="86.21%" data-shorttitle="" id="John.8" title="John 8">
<h2 id="John.8-p0.1">8</h2>
<p id="John.8-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.8.1" data-parsed="John_8_1_0_0" data-passage="John 8.1" id="John.8.1"/><sup>1</sup>but Jesus went unto the mount of Olives. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.8.2" data-parsed="John_8_2_0_0" data-passage="John 8.2" id="John.8.2"/><sup>2</sup>And early in the morning he came again into the temple, and all the people came unto him; and he sat down, and taught them. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.8.3" data-parsed="John_8_3_0_0" data-passage="John 8.3" id="John.8.3"/><sup>3</sup>And the scribes and the Pharisees bring a woman taken in adultery; and having set her in the midst, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.8.4" data-parsed="John_8_4_0_0" data-passage="John 8.4" id="John.8.4"/><sup>4</sup>they say unto him, Teacher, this woman hath been taken in adultery, in the very act.

<span data-osisref="Bible:John.8.5" data-parsed="John_8_5_0_0" data-passage="John 8.5" id="John.8.5"/><sup>5</sup>Now in the law Moses commanded us to stone such: what then sayest thou of her? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.8.6" data-parsed="John_8_6_0_0" data-passage="John 8.6" id="John.8.6"/><sup>6</sup>And this they said, trying him, that they might have <i>whereof</i> to accuse him. But Jesus stooped down, and with his finger wrote on the ground. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.8.7" data-parsed="John_8_7_0_0" data-passage="John 8.7" id="John.8.7"/><sup>7</sup>But when they continued asking him, he lifted up himself, and said unto them, He that is without sin among you, let him first cast a stone at her. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.8.8" data-parsed="John_8_8_0_0" data-passage="John 8.8" id="John.8.8"/><sup>8</sup>And again he stooped down, and with his finger wrote on the ground. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.8.9" data-parsed="John_8_9_0_0" data-passage="John 8.9" id="John.8.9"/><sup>9</sup>And they, when they heard it, went out one by one,
beginning from the eldest, <i>even</i> unto the last: and Jesus was left alone, and the woman, where she was, in the midst. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.8.10" data-parsed="John_8_10_0_0" data-passage="John 8.10" id="John.8.10"/><sup>10</sup>And Jesus lifted up himself, and said unto her, Woman, where are they? did no man condemn thee?

<span data-osisref="Bible:John.8.11" data-parsed="John_8_11_0_0" data-passage="John 8.11" id="John.8.11"/><sup>11</sup>And she said, No man, Lord. And Jesus said, Neither do I condemn thee:
go thy way; from henceforth sin no more. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.8.12" data-parsed="John_8_12_0_0" data-passage="John 8.12" id="John.8.12"/><sup>12</sup>Again therefore Jesus spake unto them, saying, I am the light of the world: he that followeth me shall not walk in the darkness, but shall have the light of life. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.8.13" data-parsed="John_8_13_0_0" data-passage="John 8.13" id="John.8.13"/><sup>13</sup>The Pharisees therefore said unto him, Thou bearest witness of thyself; thy witness is not true. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.8.14" data-parsed="John_8_14_0_0" data-passage="John 8.14" id="John.8.14"/><sup>14</sup>Jesus answered and said unto them, Even if I bear witness of myself, my witness is true; for I know whence I came, and whither I go; but ye know not whence I come, or whither I go. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.8.15" data-parsed="John_8_15_0_0" data-passage="John 8.15" id="John.8.15"/><sup>15</sup>Ye judge after the flesh; I judge no man. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.8.16" data-parsed="John_8_16_0_0" data-passage="John 8.16" id="John.8.16"/><sup>16</sup>Yea and if I judge, my judgment is true; for I am not alone, but I and the Father that sent me. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.8.17" data-parsed="John_8_17_0_0" data-passage="John 8.17" id="John.8.17"/><sup>17</sup>Yea and in your law it is written, that the witness of two men is true. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.8.18" data-parsed="John_8_18_0_0" data-passage="John 8.18" id="John.8.18"/><sup>18</sup>I am he that beareth witness of myself, and the Father that sent me beareth witness of me.

<span data-osisref="Bible:John.8.19" data-parsed="John_8_19_0_0" data-passage="John 8.19" id="John.8.19"/><sup>19</sup>They said therefore unto him, Where is thy Father? Jesus answered, Ye know neither me, nor my Father: if ye knew me, ye would know my Father also.

<span data-osisref="Bible:John.8.20" data-parsed="John_8_20_0_0" data-passage="John 8.20" id="John.8.20"/><sup>20</sup>These words spake he in the treasury, as he taught in the temple: and no man took him; because his hour was not yet come. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.8.21" data-parsed="John_8_21_0_0" data-passage="John 8.21" id="John.8.21"/><sup>21</sup>He said therefore again unto them, I go away, and ye shall seek me, and shall die in your sin:
whither I go, ye cannot come. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.8.22" data-parsed="John_8_22_0_0" data-passage="John 8.22" id="John.8.22"/><sup>22</sup>The Jews therefore said, Will he kill himself, that he saith, Whither I go, ye cannot come? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.8.23" data-parsed="John_8_23_0_0" data-passage="John 8.23" id="John.8.23"/><sup>23</sup>And he said unto them, Ye are from beneath; I am from above: ye are of this world; I am not of this world. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.8.24" data-parsed="John_8_24_0_0" data-passage="John 8.24" id="John.8.24"/><sup>24</sup>I said therefore unto you, that ye shall die in your sins:
for except ye believe that I am <i>he</i>, ye shall die in your sins.

<span data-osisref="Bible:John.8.25" data-parsed="John_8_25_0_0" data-passage="John 8.25" id="John.8.25"/><sup>25</sup>They said therefore unto him, Who art thou? Jesus said unto them, Even that which I have also spoken unto you from the beginning. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.8.26" data-parsed="John_8_26_0_0" data-passage="John 8.26" id="John.8.26"/><sup>26</sup>I have many things to speak and to judge concerning you: howbeit he that sent me is true;
and the things which I heard from him, these speak I unto the world.

<span data-osisref="Bible:John.8.27" data-parsed="John_8_27_0_0" data-passage="John 8.27" id="John.8.27"/><sup>27</sup>They perceived not that he spake to them of the Father. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.8.28" data-parsed="John_8_28_0_0" data-passage="John 8.28" id="John.8.28"/><sup>28</sup>Jesus therefore said, When ye have lifted up the Son of man, then shall ye know that I am <i>he</i>, and <i>that</i> I do nothing of myself, but as the Father taught me, I speak these things. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.8.29" data-parsed="John_8_29_0_0" data-passage="John 8.29" id="John.8.29"/><sup>29</sup>And he that sent me is with me;
he hath not left me alone; for I do always the things that are pleasing to him. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.8.30" data-parsed="John_8_30_0_0" data-passage="John 8.30" id="John.8.30"/><sup>30</sup>As he spake these things, many believed on him. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.8.31" data-parsed="John_8_31_0_0" data-passage="John 8.31" id="John.8.31"/><sup>31</sup>Jesus therefore said to those Jews that had believed him, If ye abide in my word,
<i>then</i> are ye truly my disciples; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.8.32" data-parsed="John_8_32_0_0" data-passage="John 8.32" id="John.8.32"/><sup>32</sup>and ye shall know the truth,
and the truth shall make you free. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.8.33" data-parsed="John_8_33_0_0" data-passage="John 8.33" id="John.8.33"/><sup>33</sup>They answered unto him, We are Abraham's seed, and have never yet been in bondage to any man: how sayest thou, Ye shall be made free? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.8.34" data-parsed="John_8_34_0_0" data-passage="John 8.34" id="John.8.34"/><sup>34</sup>Jesus answered them, Verily, verily, I say unto you, Every one that committeth sin is the bondservant of sin. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.8.35" data-parsed="John_8_35_0_0" data-passage="John 8.35" id="John.8.35"/><sup>35</sup>And the bondservant abideth not in the house for ever: the son abideth for ever.

<span data-osisref="Bible:John.8.36" data-parsed="John_8_36_0_0" data-passage="John 8.36" id="John.8.36"/><sup>36</sup>If therefore the Son shall make you free, ye shall be free indeed.

<span data-osisref="Bible:John.8.37" data-parsed="John_8_37_0_0" data-passage="John 8.37" id="John.8.37"/><sup>37</sup>I know that ye are Abraham's seed: yet ye seek to kill me, because my word hath not free course in you. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.8.38" data-parsed="John_8_38_0_0" data-passage="John 8.38" id="John.8.38"/><sup>38</sup>I speak the things which I have seen with <i>my</i> Father: and ye also do the things which ye heard from <i>your</i> father. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.8.39" data-parsed="John_8_39_0_0" data-passage="John 8.39" id="John.8.39"/><sup>39</sup>They answered and said unto him, Our father is Abraham. Jesus saith unto them, If ye were Abraham's children, ye would do the works of Abraham. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.8.40" data-parsed="John_8_40_0_0" data-passage="John 8.40" id="John.8.40"/><sup>40</sup>But now ye seek to kill me, a man that hath told you the truth, which I heard from God: this did not Abraham. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.8.41" data-parsed="John_8_41_0_0" data-passage="John 8.41" id="John.8.41"/><sup>41</sup>Ye do the works of your father. They said unto him, We were not born of fornication; we have one Father, <i>even</i> God. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.8.42" data-parsed="John_8_42_0_0" data-passage="John 8.42" id="John.8.42"/><sup>42</sup>Jesus said unto them, If God were your Father, ye would love me: for I came forth and am come from God; for neither have I come of myself, but he sent me. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.8.43" data-parsed="John_8_43_0_0" data-passage="John 8.43" id="John.8.43"/><sup>43</sup>Why do ye not understand my speech? <i>Even</i> because ye cannot hear my word. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.8.44" data-parsed="John_8_44_0_0" data-passage="John 8.44" id="John.8.44"/><sup>44</sup>Ye are of <i>your</i> father the devil, and the lusts of your father it is your will to do. He was a murderer from the beginning, and standeth not in the truth,
because there is no truth in him. When he speaketh a lie, he speaketh of his own: for he is a liar, and the father thereof. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.8.45" data-parsed="John_8_45_0_0" data-passage="John 8.45" id="John.8.45"/><sup>45</sup>But because I say the truth, ye believe me not. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.8.46" data-parsed="John_8_46_0_0" data-passage="John 8.46" id="John.8.46"/><sup>46</sup>Which of you convicteth me of sin? If I say truth, why do ye not believe me? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.8.47" data-parsed="John_8_47_0_0" data-passage="John 8.47" id="John.8.47"/><sup>47</sup>He that is of God heareth the words of God: for this cause ye hear <i>them</i> not, because ye are not of God.

<span data-osisref="Bible:John.8.48" data-parsed="John_8_48_0_0" data-passage="John 8.48" id="John.8.48"/><sup>48</sup>The Jews answered and said unto him, Say we not well that thou art a Samaritan, and hast a demon? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.8.49" data-parsed="John_8_49_0_0" data-passage="John 8.49" id="John.8.49"/><sup>49</sup>Jesus answered, I have not a demon; but I honor my Father, and ye dishonor me. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.8.50" data-parsed="John_8_50_0_0" data-passage="John 8.50" id="John.8.50"/><sup>50</sup>But I seek not mine own glory:
there is one that seeketh and judgeth. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.8.51" data-parsed="John_8_51_0_0" data-passage="John 8.51" id="John.8.51"/><sup>51</sup>Verily, verily, I say unto you,
If a man keep my word, he shall never see death. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.8.52" data-parsed="John_8_52_0_0" data-passage="John 8.52" id="John.8.52"/><sup>52</sup>The Jews said unto him, Now we know that thou hast a demon. Abraham died, and the prophets; and thou sayest, If a man keep my word, he shall never taste of death. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.8.53" data-parsed="John_8_53_0_0" data-passage="John 8.53" id="John.8.53"/><sup>53</sup>Art thou greater than our father Abraham, who died? and the prophets died: whom makest thou thyself? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.8.54" data-parsed="John_8_54_0_0" data-passage="John 8.54" id="John.8.54"/><sup>54</sup>Jesus answered, If I glorify myself, my glory is nothing: it is my Father that glorifieth me; of whom ye say, that he is your God; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.8.55" data-parsed="John_8_55_0_0" data-passage="John 8.55" id="John.8.55"/><sup>55</sup>and ye have not known him: but I know him; and if I should say, I know him not, I shall be like unto you, a liar: but I know him, and keep his word. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.8.56" data-parsed="John_8_56_0_0" data-passage="John 8.56" id="John.8.56"/><sup>56</sup>Your father Abraham rejoiced to see my day; and he saw it, and was glad. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.8.57" data-parsed="John_8_57_0_0" data-passage="John 8.57" id="John.8.57"/><sup>57</sup>The Jews therefore said unto him, Thou art not yet fifty years old, and hast thou seen Abraham? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.8.58" data-parsed="John_8_58_0_0" data-passage="John 8.58" id="John.8.58"/><sup>58</sup>Jesus said unto them, Verily,
verily, I say unto you, Before Abraham was born, I am. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:John.8.59" data-parsed="John_8_59_0_0" data-passage="John 8.59" id="John.8.59"/><sup>59</sup>They took up stones therefore to cast at him: but Jesus hid himself, and went out of the temple.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>