<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Jonah 4</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Jonah 4</span></div><div data-next="Mic" data-prev="Jonah.3" data-progress="75.28%" data-shorttitle="" id="Jonah.4" title="Jonah 4">
<h2 id="Jonah.4-p0.1">4</h2>
<p id="Jonah.4-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jonah.4.1" data-parsed="Jonah_4_1_0_0" data-passage="Jonah 4.1" id="Jonah.4.1"/><sup>1</sup>But it displeased Jonah exceedingly, and he was angry. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jonah.4.2" data-parsed="Jonah_4_2_0_0" data-passage="Jonah 4.2" id="Jonah.4.2"/><sup>2</sup>And he prayed unto Jehovah, and said, I pray thee, O Jehovah, was not this my saying, when I was yet in my country? Therefore I hasted to flee unto Tarshish; for I knew that thou art a gracious God, and merciful, slow to anger, and abundant in lovingkindness, and repentest thee of the evil.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Jonah.4.3" data-parsed="Jonah_4_3_0_0" data-passage="Jonah 4.3" id="Jonah.4.3"/><sup>3</sup>Therefore now, O Jehovah, take, I beseech thee, my life from me; for it is better for me to die than to live. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jonah.4.4" data-parsed="Jonah_4_4_0_0" data-passage="Jonah 4.4" id="Jonah.4.4"/><sup>4</sup>And Jehovah said, Doest thou well to be angry? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jonah.4.5" data-parsed="Jonah_4_5_0_0" data-passage="Jonah 4.5" id="Jonah.4.5"/><sup>5</sup>Then Jonah went out of the city, and sat on the east side of the city, and there made him a booth, and sat under it in the shade, till he might see what would become of the city. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jonah.4.6" data-parsed="Jonah_4_6_0_0" data-passage="Jonah 4.6" id="Jonah.4.6"/><sup>6</sup>And Jehovah God prepared a gourd, and made it to come up over Jonah, that it might be a shade over his head, to deliver him from his evil case. So Jonah was exceeding glad because of the gourd. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jonah.4.7" data-parsed="Jonah_4_7_0_0" data-passage="Jonah 4.7" id="Jonah.4.7"/><sup>7</sup>But God prepared a worm when the morning rose the next day, and it smote the gourd, that it withered. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jonah.4.8" data-parsed="Jonah_4_8_0_0" data-passage="Jonah 4.8" id="Jonah.4.8"/><sup>8</sup>And it came to pass, when the sun arose, that God prepared a sultry east wind; and the sun beat upon the head of Jonah, that he fainted, and requested for himself that he might die, and said, It is better for me to die than to live. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jonah.4.9" data-parsed="Jonah_4_9_0_0" data-passage="Jonah 4.9" id="Jonah.4.9"/><sup>9</sup>And God said to Jonah, Doest thou well to be angry for the gourd? And he said, I do well to be angry, even unto death. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jonah.4.10" data-parsed="Jonah_4_10_0_0" data-passage="Jonah 4.10" id="Jonah.4.10"/><sup>10</sup>And Jehovah said, Thou hast had regard for the gourd, for which thou hast not labored, neither madest it grow; which came up in a night, and perished in a night: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jonah.4.11" data-parsed="Jonah_4_11_0_0" data-passage="Jonah 4.11" id="Jonah.4.11"/><sup>11</sup>and should not I have regard for Nineveh, that great city, wherein are more than sixscore thousand persons that cannot discern between their right hand and their left hand; and also much cattle?</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>