<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Jonah 3</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Jonah 3</span></div><div data-next="Jonah.4" data-prev="Jonah.2" data-progress="75.25%" data-shorttitle="" id="Jonah.3" title="Jonah 3">
<h2 id="Jonah.3-p0.1">3</h2>
<p id="Jonah.3-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jonah.3.1" data-parsed="Jonah_3_1_0_0" data-passage="Jonah 3.1" id="Jonah.3.1"/><sup>1</sup>And the word of Jehovah came unto Jonah the second time, saying,

<span data-osisref="Bible:Jonah.3.2" data-parsed="Jonah_3_2_0_0" data-passage="Jonah 3.2" id="Jonah.3.2"/><sup>2</sup>Arise, go unto Nineveh, that great city, and preach unto it the preaching that I bid thee. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jonah.3.3" data-parsed="Jonah_3_3_0_0" data-passage="Jonah 3.3" id="Jonah.3.3"/><sup>3</sup>So Jonah arose, and went unto Nineveh,
according to the word of Jehovah. Now Nineveh was an exceeding great city, of three days' journey. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jonah.3.4" data-parsed="Jonah_3_4_0_0" data-passage="Jonah 3.4" id="Jonah.3.4"/><sup>4</sup>And Jonah began to enter into the city a day's journey, and he cried, and said, Yet forty days, and Nineveh shall be overthrown. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jonah.3.5" data-parsed="Jonah_3_5_0_0" data-passage="Jonah 3.5" id="Jonah.3.5"/><sup>5</sup>And the people of Nineveh believed God; and they proclaimed a fast, and put on sackcloth, from the greatest of them even to the least of them. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jonah.3.6" data-parsed="Jonah_3_6_0_0" data-passage="Jonah 3.6" id="Jonah.3.6"/><sup>6</sup>And the tidings reached the king of Nineveh, and he arose from his throne, and laid his robe from him, and covered him with sackcloth, and sat in ashes. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jonah.3.7" data-parsed="Jonah_3_7_0_0" data-passage="Jonah 3.7" id="Jonah.3.7"/><sup>7</sup>And he made proclamation and published through Nineveh by the decree of the king and his nobles, saying, Let neither man nor beast, herd nor flock, taste anything; let them not feed, nor drink water; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jonah.3.8" data-parsed="Jonah_3_8_0_0" data-passage="Jonah 3.8" id="Jonah.3.8"/><sup>8</sup>but let them be covered with sackcloth, both man and beast, and let them cry mightily unto God: yea, let them turn every one from his evil way, and from the violence that is in his hands. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jonah.3.9" data-parsed="Jonah_3_9_0_0" data-passage="Jonah 3.9" id="Jonah.3.9"/><sup>9</sup>Who knoweth whether God will not turn and repent, and turn away from his fierce anger, that we perish not? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Jonah.3.10" data-parsed="Jonah_3_10_0_0" data-passage="Jonah 3.10" id="Jonah.3.10"/><sup>10</sup>And God saw their works, that they turned from their evil way; and God repented of the evil which he said he would do unto them; and he did it not.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>