<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Joshua 19</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Joshua 19</span></div><div data-next="Josh.20" data-prev="Josh.18" data-progress="22.10%" data-shorttitle="" id="Josh.19" title="Joshua 19">
<h2 id="Josh.19-p0.1">19</h2>
<p id="Josh.19-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Josh.19.1" data-parsed="Josh_19_1_0_0" data-passage="Josh 19.1" id="Josh.19.1"/><sup>1</sup>And the second lot came out for Simeon, even for the tribe of the children of Simeon according to their families: and their inheritance was in the midst of the inheritance of the children of Judah. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Josh.19.2" data-parsed="Josh_19_2_0_0" data-passage="Josh 19.2" id="Josh.19.2"/><sup>2</sup>And they had for their inheritance Beer-sheba, or Sheba, and Moladah, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Josh.19.3" data-parsed="Josh_19_3_0_0" data-passage="Josh 19.3" id="Josh.19.3"/><sup>3</sup>and Hazar-shual,
and Balah, and Ezem, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Josh.19.4" data-parsed="Josh_19_4_0_0" data-passage="Josh 19.4" id="Josh.19.4"/><sup>4</sup>and Eltolad, and Bethul, and Hormah, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Josh.19.5" data-parsed="Josh_19_5_0_0" data-passage="Josh 19.5" id="Josh.19.5"/><sup>5</sup>and Ziklag, and Beth-marcaboth, and Hazar-susah, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Josh.19.6" data-parsed="Josh_19_6_0_0" data-passage="Josh 19.6" id="Josh.19.6"/><sup>6</sup>and Beth-lebaoth, and Sharuhen; thirteen cities with their villages: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Josh.19.7" data-parsed="Josh_19_7_0_0" data-passage="Josh 19.7" id="Josh.19.7"/><sup>7</sup>Ain, Rimmon, and Ether,
and Ashan; four cities with their villages: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Josh.19.8" data-parsed="Josh_19_8_0_0" data-passage="Josh 19.8" id="Josh.19.8"/><sup>8</sup>and all the villages that were round about these cities to Baalath-beer, Ramah of the South. This is the inheritance of the tribe of the children of Simeon according to their families. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Josh.19.9" data-parsed="Josh_19_9_0_0" data-passage="Josh 19.9" id="Josh.19.9"/><sup>9</sup>Out of the part of the children of Judah was the inheritance of the children of Simeon; for the portion of the children of Judah was too much for them: therefore the children of Simeon had inheritance in the midst of their inheritance.</p>
<p id="Josh.19-p2">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Josh.19.10" data-parsed="Josh_19_10_0_0" data-passage="Josh 19.10" id="Josh.19.10"/><sup>10</sup>And the third lot came up for the children of Zebulun according to their families; and the border of their inheritance was unto Sarid; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Josh.19.11" data-parsed="Josh_19_11_0_0" data-passage="Josh 19.11" id="Josh.19.11"/><sup>11</sup>and their border went up westward, even to Maralah, and reached to Dabbesheth;
and it reached to the brook that is before Jokneam; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Josh.19.12" data-parsed="Josh_19_12_0_0" data-passage="Josh 19.12" id="Josh.19.12"/><sup>12</sup>and it turned from Sarid eastward toward the sunrising unto the border of Chisloth-tabor; and it went out to Daberath, and went up to Japhia; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Josh.19.13" data-parsed="Josh_19_13_0_0" data-passage="Josh 19.13" id="Josh.19.13"/><sup>13</sup>and from thence it passed along eastward to Gath-hepher, to Eth-kazin; and it went out at Rimmon which stretcheth unto Neah; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Josh.19.14" data-parsed="Josh_19_14_0_0" data-passage="Josh 19.14" id="Josh.19.14"/><sup>14</sup>and the border turned about it on the north to Hannathon; and the goings out thereof were at the valley of Iphtah-el;

<span data-osisref="Bible:Josh.19.15" data-parsed="Josh_19_15_0_0" data-passage="Josh 19.15" id="Josh.19.15"/><sup>15</sup>and Kattath, and Nahalal, and Shimron, and Idalah, and Bethlehem:
twelve cities with their villages. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Josh.19.16" data-parsed="Josh_19_16_0_0" data-passage="Josh 19.16" id="Josh.19.16"/><sup>16</sup>This is the inheritance of the children of Zebulun according to their families, these cities with their villages.</p>
<p id="Josh.19-p3">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Josh.19.17" data-parsed="Josh_19_17_0_0" data-passage="Josh 19.17" id="Josh.19.17"/><sup>17</sup>The fourth lot came out for Issachar, even for the children of Issachar according to their families. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Josh.19.18" data-parsed="Josh_19_18_0_0" data-passage="Josh 19.18" id="Josh.19.18"/><sup>18</sup>And their border was unto Jezreel, and Chesulloth, and Shunem, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Josh.19.19" data-parsed="Josh_19_19_0_0" data-passage="Josh 19.19" id="Josh.19.19"/><sup>19</sup>and Hapharaim, and Shion, and Anaharath,

<span data-osisref="Bible:Josh.19.20" data-parsed="Josh_19_20_0_0" data-passage="Josh 19.20" id="Josh.19.20"/><sup>20</sup>and Rabbith, and Kishion, and Ebez, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Josh.19.21" data-parsed="Josh_19_21_0_0" data-passage="Josh 19.21" id="Josh.19.21"/><sup>21</sup>and Remeth, and Engannim, and En-haddah, and Beth-pazzez, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Josh.19.22" data-parsed="Josh_19_22_0_0" data-passage="Josh 19.22" id="Josh.19.22"/><sup>22</sup>and the border reached to Tabor, and Shahazumah, and Beth-shemesh; and the goings out of their border were at the Jordan: sixteen cities with their villages. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Josh.19.23" data-parsed="Josh_19_23_0_0" data-passage="Josh 19.23" id="Josh.19.23"/><sup>23</sup>This is the inheritance of the tribe of the children of Issachar according to their families, the cities with their villages.</p>
<p id="Josh.19-p4">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Josh.19.24" data-parsed="Josh_19_24_0_0" data-passage="Josh 19.24" id="Josh.19.24"/><sup>24</sup>And the fifth lot came out for the tribe of the children of Asher according to their families. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Josh.19.25" data-parsed="Josh_19_25_0_0" data-passage="Josh 19.25" id="Josh.19.25"/><sup>25</sup>And their border was Helkath, and Hali,
and Beten, and Achshaph, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Josh.19.26" data-parsed="Josh_19_26_0_0" data-passage="Josh 19.26" id="Josh.19.26"/><sup>26</sup>and Allammelech, and Amad, and Mishal; and it reached to Carmel westward, and to Shihor-libnath; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Josh.19.27" data-parsed="Josh_19_27_0_0" data-passage="Josh 19.27" id="Josh.19.27"/><sup>27</sup>and it turned toward the sunrising to Beth-dagon, and reached to Zebulun, and to the valley of Iphtah-el northward to Beth-emek and Neiel; and it went out to Cabul on the left hand, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Josh.19.28" data-parsed="Josh_19_28_0_0" data-passage="Josh 19.28" id="Josh.19.28"/><sup>28</sup>and Ebron, and Rehob, and Hammon, and Kanah, even unto great Sidon; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Josh.19.29" data-parsed="Josh_19_29_0_0" data-passage="Josh 19.29" id="Josh.19.29"/><sup>29</sup>and the border turned to Ramah, and to the fortified city of Tyre; and the border turned to Hosah; and the goings out thereof were at the sea by the region of Achzib; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Josh.19.30" data-parsed="Josh_19_30_0_0" data-passage="Josh 19.30" id="Josh.19.30"/><sup>30</sup>Ummah also, and Aphek, and Rehob: twenty and two cities with their villages. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Josh.19.31" data-parsed="Josh_19_31_0_0" data-passage="Josh 19.31" id="Josh.19.31"/><sup>31</sup>This is the inheritance of the tribe of the children of Asher according to their families, these cities with their villages.</p>
<p id="Josh.19-p5">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Josh.19.32" data-parsed="Josh_19_32_0_0" data-passage="Josh 19.32" id="Josh.19.32"/><sup>32</sup>The sixth lot came out for the children of Naphtali, even for the children of Naphtali according to their families. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Josh.19.33" data-parsed="Josh_19_33_0_0" data-passage="Josh 19.33" id="Josh.19.33"/><sup>33</sup>And their border was from Heleph, from the oak in Zaanannim, and Adaminekeb, and Jabneel, unto Lakkum; and the goings out thereof were at the Jordan; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Josh.19.34" data-parsed="Josh_19_34_0_0" data-passage="Josh 19.34" id="Josh.19.34"/><sup>34</sup>and the border turned westward to Aznoth-tabor, and went out from thence to Hukkok; and it reached to Zebulun on the south, and reached to Asher on the west, and to Judah at the Jordan toward the sunrising. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Josh.19.35" data-parsed="Josh_19_35_0_0" data-passage="Josh 19.35" id="Josh.19.35"/><sup>35</sup>And the fortified cities were Ziddim, Zer, and Hammath, Rakkath, and Chinnereth, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Josh.19.36" data-parsed="Josh_19_36_0_0" data-passage="Josh 19.36" id="Josh.19.36"/><sup>36</sup>and Adamah, and Ramah, and Hazor, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Josh.19.37" data-parsed="Josh_19_37_0_0" data-passage="Josh 19.37" id="Josh.19.37"/><sup>37</sup>and Kedesh, and Edrei, and En-hazor, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Josh.19.38" data-parsed="Josh_19_38_0_0" data-passage="Josh 19.38" id="Josh.19.38"/><sup>38</sup>And Iron,
and Migdal-el, Horem, and Beth-anath, and Beth-shemesh; nineteen cities with their villages. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Josh.19.39" data-parsed="Josh_19_39_0_0" data-passage="Josh 19.39" id="Josh.19.39"/><sup>39</sup>This is the inheritance of the tribe of the children of Naphtali according to their families, the cities with their villages.</p>
<p id="Josh.19-p6">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Josh.19.40" data-parsed="Josh_19_40_0_0" data-passage="Josh 19.40" id="Josh.19.40"/><sup>40</sup>The seventh lot came out for the tribe of the children of Dan according to their families. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Josh.19.41" data-parsed="Josh_19_41_0_0" data-passage="Josh 19.41" id="Josh.19.41"/><sup>41</sup>And the border of their inheritance was Zorah, and Eshtaol, and Ir-shemesh, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Josh.19.42" data-parsed="Josh_19_42_0_0" data-passage="Josh 19.42" id="Josh.19.42"/><sup>42</sup>and Shaalabbin, and Aijalon, and Ithlah,

<span data-osisref="Bible:Josh.19.43" data-parsed="Josh_19_43_0_0" data-passage="Josh 19.43" id="Josh.19.43"/><sup>43</sup>and Elon, and Timnah, and Ekron, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Josh.19.44" data-parsed="Josh_19_44_0_0" data-passage="Josh 19.44" id="Josh.19.44"/><sup>44</sup>and Eltekeh, and Gibbethon, and Baalath, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Josh.19.45" data-parsed="Josh_19_45_0_0" data-passage="Josh 19.45" id="Josh.19.45"/><sup>45</sup>and Jehud, and Bene-berak, and Gath-rimmon, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Josh.19.46" data-parsed="Josh_19_46_0_0" data-passage="Josh 19.46" id="Josh.19.46"/><sup>46</sup>and Me-jarkon, and Rakkon, with the border over against Joppa. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Josh.19.47" data-parsed="Josh_19_47_0_0" data-passage="Josh 19.47" id="Josh.19.47"/><sup>47</sup>And the border of the children of Dan went out beyond them; for the children of Dan went up and fought against Leshem, and took it, and smote it with the edge of the sword, and possessed it, and dwelt therein, and called Leshem, Dan, after the name of Dan their father. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Josh.19.48" data-parsed="Josh_19_48_0_0" data-passage="Josh 19.48" id="Josh.19.48"/><sup>48</sup>This is the inheritance of the tribe of the children of Dan according to their families, these cities with their villages.</p>
<p id="Josh.19-p7">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Josh.19.49" data-parsed="Josh_19_49_0_0" data-passage="Josh 19.49" id="Josh.19.49"/><sup>49</sup>So they made an end of distributing the land for inheritance by the borders thereof; and the children of Israel gave an inheritance to Joshua the son of Nun in the midst of them: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Josh.19.50" data-parsed="Josh_19_50_0_0" data-passage="Josh 19.50" id="Josh.19.50"/><sup>50</sup>according to the commandment of Jehovah they gave him the city which he asked, even Timnath-serah in the hill-country of Ephraim; and he built the city, and dwelt therein.</p>
<p id="Josh.19-p8">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Josh.19.51" data-parsed="Josh_19_51_0_0" data-passage="Josh 19.51" id="Josh.19.51"/><sup>51</sup>These are the inheritances, which Eleazar the priest, and Joshua the son of Nun, and the heads of the fathers' <i>houses</i> of the tribes of the children of Israel, distributed for inheritance by lot in Shiloh before Jehovah, at the door of the tent of meeting. So they made an end of dividing the land.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>