<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Joshua 17</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Joshua 17</span></div><div data-next="Josh.18" data-prev="Josh.16" data-progress="21.91%" data-shorttitle="" id="Josh.17" title="Joshua 17">
<h2 id="Josh.17-p0.1">17</h2>
<p id="Josh.17-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Josh.17.1" data-parsed="Josh_17_1_0_0" data-passage="Josh 17.1" id="Josh.17.1"/><sup>1</sup>And <i>this</i> was the lot for the tribe of Manasseh; for he was the first-born of Joseph. As for Machir the first-born of Manasseh, the father of Gilead, because he was a man of war, therefore he had Gilead and Bashan. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Josh.17.2" data-parsed="Josh_17_2_0_0" data-passage="Josh 17.2" id="Josh.17.2"/><sup>2</sup>So <i>the lot</i> was for the rest of the children of Manasseh according to their families: for the children of Abiezer, and for the children of Helek, and for the children of Asriel, and for the children of Shechem, and for the children of Hepher, and for the children of Shemida:
these were the male children of Manasseh the son of Joseph according to their families. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Josh.17.3" data-parsed="Josh_17_3_0_0" data-passage="Josh 17.3" id="Josh.17.3"/><sup>3</sup>But Zelophehad, the son of Hepher, the son of Gilead, the son of Machir, the son of Manasseh, had no sons, but daughters: and these are the names of his daughters: Mahlah, and Noah, Hoglah, Milcah, and Tirzah.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Josh.17.4" data-parsed="Josh_17_4_0_0" data-passage="Josh 17.4" id="Josh.17.4"/><sup>4</sup>And they came near before Eleazar the priest, and before Joshua the son of Nun, and before the princes, saying, Jehovah commanded Moses to give us an inheritance among our brethren: therefore according to the commandment of Jehovah he gave them an inheritance among the brethren of their father.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Josh.17.5" data-parsed="Josh_17_5_0_0" data-passage="Josh 17.5" id="Josh.17.5"/><sup>5</sup>And there fell ten parts to Manasseh, besides the land of Gilead and Bashan, which is beyond the Jordan; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Josh.17.6" data-parsed="Josh_17_6_0_0" data-passage="Josh 17.6" id="Josh.17.6"/><sup>6</sup>because the daughters of Manasseh had an inheritance among his sons. And the land of Gilead belonged unto the rest of the sons of Manasseh.</p>
<p id="Josh.17-p2">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Josh.17.7" data-parsed="Josh_17_7_0_0" data-passage="Josh 17.7" id="Josh.17.7"/><sup>7</sup>And the border of Manasseh was from Asher to Michmethath, which is before Shechem; and the border went along to the right hand, unto the inhabitants of En-tappuah. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Josh.17.8" data-parsed="Josh_17_8_0_0" data-passage="Josh 17.8" id="Josh.17.8"/><sup>8</sup>The land of Tappuah belonged to Manasseh; but Tappuah on the border of Manasseh belonged to the children of Ephraim.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Josh.17.9" data-parsed="Josh_17_9_0_0" data-passage="Josh 17.9" id="Josh.17.9"/><sup>9</sup>And the border went down unto the brook of Kanah, southward of the brook: these cities belonged to Ephraim among the cities of Manasseh: and the border of Manasseh was on the north side of the brook, and the goings out thereof were at the sea: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Josh.17.10" data-parsed="Josh_17_10_0_0" data-passage="Josh 17.10" id="Josh.17.10"/><sup>10</sup>southward it was Ephraim's, and northward it was Manasseh's, and the sea was his border; and they reached to Asher on the north, and to Issachar on the east. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Josh.17.11" data-parsed="Josh_17_11_0_0" data-passage="Josh 17.11" id="Josh.17.11"/><sup>11</sup>And Manasseh had in Issachar and in Asher Beth-shean and its towns, and Ibleam and its towns, and the inhabitants of Dor and its towns, and the inhabitants of En-dor and its towns, and the inhabitants of Taanach and its towns, and the inhabitants of Megiddo and its towns, even the three heights. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Josh.17.12" data-parsed="Josh_17_12_0_0" data-passage="Josh 17.12" id="Josh.17.12"/><sup>12</sup>Yet the children of Manasseh could not drive out <i>the inhabitants of</i> those cities; but the Canaanites would dwell in that land. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Josh.17.13" data-parsed="Josh_17_13_0_0" data-passage="Josh 17.13" id="Josh.17.13"/><sup>13</sup>And it came to pass, when the children of Israel were waxed strong, that they put the Canaanites to taskwork, and did not utterly drive them out.</p>
<p id="Josh.17-p3">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Josh.17.14" data-parsed="Josh_17_14_0_0" data-passage="Josh 17.14" id="Josh.17.14"/><sup>14</sup>And the children of Joseph spake unto Joshua, saying, Why hast thou given me but one lot and one part for an inheritance, seeing I am a great people, forasmuch as hitherto Jehovah hath blessed me? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Josh.17.15" data-parsed="Josh_17_15_0_0" data-passage="Josh 17.15" id="Josh.17.15"/><sup>15</sup>And Joshua said unto them, If thou be a great people, get thee up to the forest, and cut down for thyself there in the land of the Perizzites and of the Rephaim; since the hill-country of Ephraim is too narrow for thee. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Josh.17.16" data-parsed="Josh_17_16_0_0" data-passage="Josh 17.16" id="Josh.17.16"/><sup>16</sup>And the children of Joseph said, The hill-country is not enough for us: and all the Canaanites that dwell in the land of the valley have chariots of iron, both they who are in Beth-shean and its towns, and they who are in the valley of Jezreel.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Josh.17.17" data-parsed="Josh_17_17_0_0" data-passage="Josh 17.17" id="Josh.17.17"/><sup>17</sup>And Joshua spake unto the house of Joseph, even to Ephraim and to Manasseh, saying, Thou art a great people, and hast great power; thou shalt not have one lot only: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Josh.17.18" data-parsed="Josh_17_18_0_0" data-passage="Josh 17.18" id="Josh.17.18"/><sup>18</sup>but the hill-country shall be thine; for though it is a forest, thou shalt cut it down, and the goings out thereof shall be thine; for thou shalt drive out the Canaanites, though they have chariots of iron, and though they are strong.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>