<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Judges 13</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Judges 13</span></div><div data-next="Judg.14" data-prev="Judg.12" data-progress="24.15%" data-shorttitle="" id="Judg.13" title="Judges 13">
<h2 id="Judg.13-p0.1">13</h2>
<p id="Judg.13-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Judg.13.1" data-parsed="Judg_13_1_0_0" data-passage="Judg 13.1" id="Judg.13.1"/><sup>1</sup>And the children of Israel again did that which was evil in the sight of Jehovah; and Jehovah delivered them into the hand of the Philistines forty years.</p>
<p id="Judg.13-p2">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Judg.13.2" data-parsed="Judg_13_2_0_0" data-passage="Judg 13.2" id="Judg.13.2"/><sup>2</sup>And there was a certain man of Zorah, of the family of the Danites,
whose name was Manoah; and his wife was barren, and bare not. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Judg.13.3" data-parsed="Judg_13_3_0_0" data-passage="Judg 13.3" id="Judg.13.3"/><sup>3</sup>And the angel of Jehovah appeared unto the woman, and said unto her, Behold now, thou art barren, and bearest not; but thou shalt conceive, and bear a son.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Judg.13.4" data-parsed="Judg_13_4_0_0" data-passage="Judg 13.4" id="Judg.13.4"/><sup>4</sup>Now therefore beware, I pray thee, and drink no wine nor strong drink,
and eat not any unclean thing: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Judg.13.5" data-parsed="Judg_13_5_0_0" data-passage="Judg 13.5" id="Judg.13.5"/><sup>5</sup>for, lo, thou shalt conceive, and bear a son; and no razor shall come upon his head; for the child shall be a Nazirite unto God from the womb: and he shall begin to save Israel out of the hand of the Philistines. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Judg.13.6" data-parsed="Judg_13_6_0_0" data-passage="Judg 13.6" id="Judg.13.6"/><sup>6</sup>Then the woman came and told her husband, saying, A man of God came unto me, and his countenance was like the countenance of the angel of God, very terrible; and I asked him not whence he was, neither told he me his name: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Judg.13.7" data-parsed="Judg_13_7_0_0" data-passage="Judg 13.7" id="Judg.13.7"/><sup>7</sup>but he said unto me, Behold, thou shalt conceive, and bear a son; and now drink no wine nor strong drink, and eat not any unclean thing; for the child shall be a Nazirite unto God from the womb to the day of his death.</p>
<p id="Judg.13-p3">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Judg.13.8" data-parsed="Judg_13_8_0_0" data-passage="Judg 13.8" id="Judg.13.8"/><sup>8</sup>Then Manoah entreated Jehovah, and said, Oh, Lord, I pray thee, let the man of God whom thou didst send come again unto us, and teach us what we shall do unto the child that shall be born. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Judg.13.9" data-parsed="Judg_13_9_0_0" data-passage="Judg 13.9" id="Judg.13.9"/><sup>9</sup>And God hearkened to the voice of Manoah; and the angel of God came again unto the woman as she sat in the field: but Manoah her husband was not with her. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Judg.13.10" data-parsed="Judg_13_10_0_0" data-passage="Judg 13.10" id="Judg.13.10"/><sup>10</sup>And the woman made haste, and ran, and told her husband, and said unto him, Behold, the man hath appeared unto me, that came unto me the <i>other</i> day. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Judg.13.11" data-parsed="Judg_13_11_0_0" data-passage="Judg 13.11" id="Judg.13.11"/><sup>11</sup>And Manoah arose, and went after his wife, and came to the man, and said unto him, Art thou the man that spakest unto the woman? And he said, I am. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Judg.13.12" data-parsed="Judg_13_12_0_0" data-passage="Judg 13.12" id="Judg.13.12"/><sup>12</sup>And Manoah said, Now let thy words come to pass: what shall be the ordering of the child, and <i>how</i> shall we do unto him? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Judg.13.13" data-parsed="Judg_13_13_0_0" data-passage="Judg 13.13" id="Judg.13.13"/><sup>13</sup>And the angel of Jehovah said unto Manoah, Of all that I said unto the woman let her beware. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Judg.13.14" data-parsed="Judg_13_14_0_0" data-passage="Judg 13.14" id="Judg.13.14"/><sup>14</sup>She may not eat of anything that cometh of the vine, neither let her drink wine or strong drink, nor eat any unclean thing; all that I commanded her let her observe.</p>
<p id="Judg.13-p4">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Judg.13.15" data-parsed="Judg_13_15_0_0" data-passage="Judg 13.15" id="Judg.13.15"/><sup>15</sup>And Manoah said unto the angel of Jehovah, I pray thee, let us detain thee, that we may make ready a kid for thee. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Judg.13.16" data-parsed="Judg_13_16_0_0" data-passage="Judg 13.16" id="Judg.13.16"/><sup>16</sup>And the angel of Jehovah said unto Manoah, Though thou detain me, I will not eat of thy bread; and if thou wilt make ready a burnt-offering, thou must offer it unto Jehovah. For Manoah knew not that he was the angel of Jehovah. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Judg.13.17" data-parsed="Judg_13_17_0_0" data-passage="Judg 13.17" id="Judg.13.17"/><sup>17</sup>And Manoah said unto the angel of Jehovah, What is thy name, that, when thy words come to pass, we may do thee honor? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Judg.13.18" data-parsed="Judg_13_18_0_0" data-passage="Judg 13.18" id="Judg.13.18"/><sup>18</sup>And the angel of Jehovah said unto him, Wherefore askest thou after my name, seeing it is wonderful? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Judg.13.19" data-parsed="Judg_13_19_0_0" data-passage="Judg 13.19" id="Judg.13.19"/><sup>19</sup>So Manoah took the kid with the meal-offering, and offered it upon the rock unto Jehovah: and <i>the angel</i> did wondrously, and Manoah and his wife looked on.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Judg.13.20" data-parsed="Judg_13_20_0_0" data-passage="Judg 13.20" id="Judg.13.20"/><sup>20</sup>For it came to pass, when the flame went up toward heaven from off the altar, that the angel of Jehovah ascended in the flame of the altar: and Manoah and his wife looked on; and they fell on their faces to the ground.</p>
<p id="Judg.13-p5">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Judg.13.21" data-parsed="Judg_13_21_0_0" data-passage="Judg 13.21" id="Judg.13.21"/><sup>21</sup>But the angel of Jehovah did no more appear to Manoah or to his wife.
Then Manoah knew that he was the angel of Jehovah. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Judg.13.22" data-parsed="Judg_13_22_0_0" data-passage="Judg 13.22" id="Judg.13.22"/><sup>22</sup>And Manoah said unto his wife, We shall surely die, because we have seen God. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Judg.13.23" data-parsed="Judg_13_23_0_0" data-passage="Judg 13.23" id="Judg.13.23"/><sup>23</sup>But his wife said unto him, If Jehovah were pleased to kill us, he would not have received a burnt-offering and a meal-offering at our hand, neither would he have showed us all these things, nor would at this time have told such things as these. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Judg.13.24" data-parsed="Judg_13_24_0_0" data-passage="Judg 13.24" id="Judg.13.24"/><sup>24</sup>And the woman bare a son, and called his name Samson: and the child grew, and Jehovah blessed him. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Judg.13.25" data-parsed="Judg_13_25_0_0" data-passage="Judg 13.25" id="Judg.13.25"/><sup>25</sup>And the Spirit of Jehovah began to move him in Mahaneh-dan, between Zorah and Eshtaol.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>