<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Judges 17</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Judges 17</span></div><div data-next="Judg.18" data-prev="Judg.16" data-progress="24.53%" data-shorttitle="" id="Judg.17" title="Judges 17">
<h2 id="Judg.17-p0.1">17</h2>
<p id="Judg.17-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Judg.17.1" data-parsed="Judg_17_1_0_0" data-passage="Judg 17.1" id="Judg.17.1"/><sup>1</sup>And there was a man of the hill-country of Ephraim, whose name was Micah. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Judg.17.2" data-parsed="Judg_17_2_0_0" data-passage="Judg 17.2" id="Judg.17.2"/><sup>2</sup>And he said unto his mother, The eleven hundred <i>pieces</i> of silver that were taken from thee, about which thou didst utter a curse, and didst also speak it in mine ears, behold, the silver is with me; I took it.
And his mother said, Blessed be my son of Jehovah. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Judg.17.3" data-parsed="Judg_17_3_0_0" data-passage="Judg 17.3" id="Judg.17.3"/><sup>3</sup>And he restored the eleven hundred <i>pieces</i> of silver to his mother; and his mother said, I verily dedicate the silver unto Jehovah from my hand for my son, to make a graven image and a molten image: now therefore I will restore it unto thee.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Judg.17.4" data-parsed="Judg_17_4_0_0" data-passage="Judg 17.4" id="Judg.17.4"/><sup>4</sup>And when he restored the money unto his mother, his mother took two hundred <i>pieces</i> of silver, and gave them to the founder, who made thereof a graven image and a molten image: and it was in the house of Micah.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Judg.17.5" data-parsed="Judg_17_5_0_0" data-passage="Judg 17.5" id="Judg.17.5"/><sup>5</sup>And the man Micah had a house of gods, and he made an ephod, and teraphim, and consecrated one of his sons, who became his priest. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Judg.17.6" data-parsed="Judg_17_6_0_0" data-passage="Judg 17.6" id="Judg.17.6"/><sup>6</sup>In those days there was no king in Israel: every man did that which was right in his own eyes.</p>
<p id="Judg.17-p2">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Judg.17.7" data-parsed="Judg_17_7_0_0" data-passage="Judg 17.7" id="Judg.17.7"/><sup>7</sup>And there was a young man out of Beth-lehem-judah, of the family of Judah, who was a Levite; and he sojourned there. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Judg.17.8" data-parsed="Judg_17_8_0_0" data-passage="Judg 17.8" id="Judg.17.8"/><sup>8</sup>And the man departed out of the city, out of Beth-lehem-judah, to sojourn where he could find <i>a place</i>, and he came to the hill-country of Ephraim to the house of Micah, as he journeyed. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Judg.17.9" data-parsed="Judg_17_9_0_0" data-passage="Judg 17.9" id="Judg.17.9"/><sup>9</sup>And Micah said unto him, Whence comest thou? And he said unto him, I am a Levite of Beth-lehem-judah, and I go to sojourn where I may find <i>a place</i>. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Judg.17.10" data-parsed="Judg_17_10_0_0" data-passage="Judg 17.10" id="Judg.17.10"/><sup>10</sup>And Micah said unto him, Dwell with me, and be unto me a father and a priest, and I will give thee ten <i>pieces</i> of silver by the year, and a suit of apparel, and thy victuals. So the Levite went in. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Judg.17.11" data-parsed="Judg_17_11_0_0" data-passage="Judg 17.11" id="Judg.17.11"/><sup>11</sup>And the Levite was content to dwell with the man; and the young man was unto him as one of his sons. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Judg.17.12" data-parsed="Judg_17_12_0_0" data-passage="Judg 17.12" id="Judg.17.12"/><sup>12</sup>And Micah consecrated the Levite, and the young man became his priest, and was in the house of Micah. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Judg.17.13" data-parsed="Judg_17_13_0_0" data-passage="Judg 17.13" id="Judg.17.13"/><sup>13</sup>Then said Micah, Now know I that Jehovah will do me good, seeing I have a Levite to my priest.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>