<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Judges 3</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Judges 3</span></div><div data-next="Judg.4" data-prev="Judg.2" data-progress="22.98%" data-shorttitle="" id="Judg.3" title="Judges 3">
<h2 id="Judg.3-p0.1">3</h2>
<p id="Judg.3-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Judg.3.1" data-parsed="Judg_3_1_0_0" data-passage="Judg 3.1" id="Judg.3.1"/><sup>1</sup>Now these are the nations which Jehovah left, to prove Israel by them, even as many <i>of Israel</i> as had not known all the wars of Canaan;

<span data-osisref="Bible:Judg.3.2" data-parsed="Judg_3_2_0_0" data-passage="Judg 3.2" id="Judg.3.2"/><sup>2</sup>only that the generations of the children of Israel might know, to teach them war, at the least such as beforetime knew nothing thereof:

<span data-osisref="Bible:Judg.3.3" data-parsed="Judg_3_3_0_0" data-passage="Judg 3.3" id="Judg.3.3"/><sup>3</sup><i>namely</i>, the five lords of the Philistines, and all the Canaanites, and the Sidonians, and the Hivites that dwelt in mount Lebanon,
from mount Baal-hermon unto the entrance of Hamath. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Judg.3.4" data-parsed="Judg_3_4_0_0" data-passage="Judg 3.4" id="Judg.3.4"/><sup>4</sup>And they were <i>left</i>, to prove Israel by them, to know whether they would hearken unto the commandments of Jehovah, which he commanded their fathers by Moses.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Judg.3.5" data-parsed="Judg_3_5_0_0" data-passage="Judg 3.5" id="Judg.3.5"/><sup>5</sup>And the children of Israel dwelt among the Canaanites, the Hittites, and the Amorites, and the Perizzites, and the Hivites, and the Jebusites:

<span data-osisref="Bible:Judg.3.6" data-parsed="Judg_3_6_0_0" data-passage="Judg 3.6" id="Judg.3.6"/><sup>6</sup>and they took their daughters to be their wives, and gave their own daughters to their sons and served their gods.</p>
<p id="Judg.3-p2">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Judg.3.7" data-parsed="Judg_3_7_0_0" data-passage="Judg 3.7" id="Judg.3.7"/><sup>7</sup>And the children of Israel did that which was evil in the sight of Jehovah, and forgat Jehovah their God, and served the Baalim and the Asheroth. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Judg.3.8" data-parsed="Judg_3_8_0_0" data-passage="Judg 3.8" id="Judg.3.8"/><sup>8</sup>Therefore the anger of Jehovah was kindled against Israel, and he sold them into the hand of Cushan-rishathaim king of Mesopotamia: and the children of Israel served Cushan-rishathaim eight years. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Judg.3.9" data-parsed="Judg_3_9_0_0" data-passage="Judg 3.9" id="Judg.3.9"/><sup>9</sup>And when the children of Israel cried unto Jehovah, Jehovah raised up a saviour to the children of Israel, who saved them, even Othniel the son of Kenaz, Caleb's younger brother. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Judg.3.10" data-parsed="Judg_3_10_0_0" data-passage="Judg 3.10" id="Judg.3.10"/><sup>10</sup>And the Spirit of Jehovah came upon him, and he judged Israel; and he went out to war, and Jehovah delivered Cushan-rishathaim king of Mesopotamia into his hand: and his hand prevailed against Cushan-rishathaim. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Judg.3.11" data-parsed="Judg_3_11_0_0" data-passage="Judg 3.11" id="Judg.3.11"/><sup>11</sup>And the land had rest forty years. And Othniel the son of Kenaz died.</p>
<p id="Judg.3-p3">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Judg.3.12" data-parsed="Judg_3_12_0_0" data-passage="Judg 3.12" id="Judg.3.12"/><sup>12</sup>And the children of Israel again did that which was evil in the sight of Jehovah: and Jehovah strengthened Eglon the king of Moab against Israel,
because they had done that which was evil in the sight of Jehovah. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Judg.3.13" data-parsed="Judg_3_13_0_0" data-passage="Judg 3.13" id="Judg.3.13"/><sup>13</sup>And he gathered unto him the children of Ammon and Amalek; and he went and smote Israel, and they possessed the city of palm-trees. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Judg.3.14" data-parsed="Judg_3_14_0_0" data-passage="Judg 3.14" id="Judg.3.14"/><sup>14</sup>And the children of Israel served Eglon the king of Moab eighteen years.</p>
<p id="Judg.3-p4">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Judg.3.15" data-parsed="Judg_3_15_0_0" data-passage="Judg 3.15" id="Judg.3.15"/><sup>15</sup>But when the children of Israel cried unto Jehovah, Jehovah raised them up a saviour, Ehud the son of Gera, the Benjamite, a man left-handed. And the children of Israel sent tribute by him unto Eglon the king of Moab. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Judg.3.16" data-parsed="Judg_3_16_0_0" data-passage="Judg 3.16" id="Judg.3.16"/><sup>16</sup>And Ehud made him a sword which had two edges, a cubit in length; and he girded it under his raiment upon his right thigh. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Judg.3.17" data-parsed="Judg_3_17_0_0" data-passage="Judg 3.17" id="Judg.3.17"/><sup>17</sup>And he offered the tribute unto Eglon king of Moab: now Eglon was a very fat man. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Judg.3.18" data-parsed="Judg_3_18_0_0" data-passage="Judg 3.18" id="Judg.3.18"/><sup>18</sup>And when he had made an end of offering the tribute, he sent away the people that bare the tribute. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Judg.3.19" data-parsed="Judg_3_19_0_0" data-passage="Judg 3.19" id="Judg.3.19"/><sup>19</sup>But he himself turned back from the quarries that were by Gilgal, and said, I have a secret errand unto thee, O king. And he said, Keep silence. And all that stood by him went out from him. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Judg.3.20" data-parsed="Judg_3_20_0_0" data-passage="Judg 3.20" id="Judg.3.20"/><sup>20</sup>And Ehud came unto him; and he was sitting by himself alone in the cool upper room. And Ehud said, I have a message from God unto thee. And he arose out of his seat.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Judg.3.21" data-parsed="Judg_3_21_0_0" data-passage="Judg 3.21" id="Judg.3.21"/><sup>21</sup>And Ehud put forth his left hand, and took the sword from his right thigh, and thrust it into his body: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Judg.3.22" data-parsed="Judg_3_22_0_0" data-passage="Judg 3.22" id="Judg.3.22"/><sup>22</sup>and the haft also went in after the blade; and the fat closed upon the blade, for he drew not the sword out of his body; and it came out behind. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Judg.3.23" data-parsed="Judg_3_23_0_0" data-passage="Judg 3.23" id="Judg.3.23"/><sup>23</sup>Then Ehud went forth into the porch,
and shut the doors of the upper room upon him, and locked them.</p>
<p id="Judg.3-p5">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Judg.3.24" data-parsed="Judg_3_24_0_0" data-passage="Judg 3.24" id="Judg.3.24"/><sup>24</sup>Now when he was gone out, his servants came; and they saw, and, behold,
the doors of the upper room were locked; and they said, Surely he is covering his feet in the upper chamber. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Judg.3.25" data-parsed="Judg_3_25_0_0" data-passage="Judg 3.25" id="Judg.3.25"/><sup>25</sup>And they tarried till they were ashamed;
and, behold, he opened not the doors of the upper room: therefore they took the key, and opened <i>them</i>, and, behold, their lord was fallen down dead on the earth.</p>
<p id="Judg.3-p6">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Judg.3.26" data-parsed="Judg_3_26_0_0" data-passage="Judg 3.26" id="Judg.3.26"/><sup>26</sup>And Ehud escaped while they tarried, and passed beyond the quarries,
and escaped unto Seirah. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Judg.3.27" data-parsed="Judg_3_27_0_0" data-passage="Judg 3.27" id="Judg.3.27"/><sup>27</sup>And it came to pass, when he was come, that he blew a trumpet in the hill-country of Ephraim; and the children of Israel went down with him from the hill-country, and he before them. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Judg.3.28" data-parsed="Judg_3_28_0_0" data-passage="Judg 3.28" id="Judg.3.28"/><sup>28</sup>And he said unto them, Follow after me; for Jehovah hath delivered your enemies the Moabites into your hand. And they went down after him, and took the fords of the Jordan against the Moabites, and suffered not a man to pass over.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Judg.3.29" data-parsed="Judg_3_29_0_0" data-passage="Judg 3.29" id="Judg.3.29"/><sup>29</sup>And they smote of Moab at that time about ten thousand men, every lusty man, and every man of valor; and there escaped not a man. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Judg.3.30" data-parsed="Judg_3_30_0_0" data-passage="Judg 3.30" id="Judg.3.30"/><sup>30</sup>So Moab was subdued that day under the hand of Israel. And the land had rest fourscore years.</p>
<p id="Judg.3-p7">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Judg.3.31" data-parsed="Judg_3_31_0_0" data-passage="Judg 3.31" id="Judg.3.31"/><sup>31</sup>And after him was Shamgar the son of Anath, who smote of the Philistines six hundred men with an ox-goad: and he also saved Israel.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>