<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Lamentations 2</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Lamentations 2</span></div><div data-next="Lam.3" data-prev="Lam.1" data-progress="66.94%" data-shorttitle="" id="Lam.2" title="Lamentations 2">
<h2 id="Lam.2-p0.1">2</h2>
<p class="poetry" id="Lam.2-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lam.2.1" data-parsed="Lam_2_1_0_0" data-passage="Lam 2.1" id="Lam.2.1"/><sup>1</sup>How hath the Lord covered the daughter of Zion with a cloud in his anger!</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Lam.2-p2">
He hath cast down from heaven unto the earth the beauty of Israel,</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Lam.2-p3">
And hath not remembered his footstool in the day of his anger.</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Lam.2-p4">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lam.2.2" data-parsed="Lam_2_2_0_0" data-passage="Lam 2.2" id="Lam.2.2"/><sup>2</sup>The Lord hath swallowed up all the habitations of Jacob, and hath not pitied:</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Lam.2-p5">
He hath thrown down in his wrath the strongholds of the daughter of Judah;</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Lam.2-p6">
He hath brought them down to the ground; he hath profaned the kingdom and the princes thereof.</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Lam.2-p7">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lam.2.3" data-parsed="Lam_2_3_0_0" data-passage="Lam 2.3" id="Lam.2.3"/><sup>3</sup>He hath cut off in fierce anger all the horn of Israel;</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Lam.2-p8">
He hath drawn back his right hand from before the enemy:</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Lam.2-p9">
And he hath burned up Jacob like a flaming fire, which devoureth round about.</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Lam.2-p10">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lam.2.4" data-parsed="Lam_2_4_0_0" data-passage="Lam 2.4" id="Lam.2.4"/><sup>4</sup>He hath bent his bow like an enemy, he hath stood with his right hand as an adversary,</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Lam.2-p11">
And hath slain all that were pleasant to the eye:</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Lam.2-p12">
In the tent of the daughter of Zion he hath poured out his wrath like fire.</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Lam.2-p13">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lam.2.5" data-parsed="Lam_2_5_0_0" data-passage="Lam 2.5" id="Lam.2.5"/><sup>5</sup>The Lord is become as an enemy, he hath swallowed up Israel;</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Lam.2-p14">
He hath swallowed up all her palaces, he hath destroyed his strongholds;</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Lam.2-p15">
And he hath multiplied in the daughter of Judah mourning and lamentation.</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Lam.2-p16">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lam.2.6" data-parsed="Lam_2_6_0_0" data-passage="Lam 2.6" id="Lam.2.6"/><sup>6</sup>And he hath violently taken away his tabernacle, as if it were of a garden; he hath destroyed his place of assembly:</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Lam.2-p17">
Jehovah hath caused solemn assembly and sabbath to be forgotten in Zion,</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Lam.2-p18">
And hath despised in the indignation of his anger the king and the priest.</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Lam.2-p19">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lam.2.7" data-parsed="Lam_2_7_0_0" data-passage="Lam 2.7" id="Lam.2.7"/><sup>7</sup>The Lord hath cast off his altar, he hath abhorred his sanctuary;</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Lam.2-p20">
He hath given up into the hand of the enemy the walls of her palaces:</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Lam.2-p21">
They have made a noise in the house of Jehovah, as in the day of a solemn assembly.</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Lam.2-p22">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lam.2.8" data-parsed="Lam_2_8_0_0" data-passage="Lam 2.8" id="Lam.2.8"/><sup>8</sup>Jehovah hath purposed to destroy the wall of the daughter of Zion;</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Lam.2-p23">
He hath stretched out the line, he hath not withdrawn his hand from destroying;</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Lam.2-p24">
And he hath made the rampart and wall to lament; they languish together.</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Lam.2-p25">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lam.2.9" data-parsed="Lam_2_9_0_0" data-passage="Lam 2.9" id="Lam.2.9"/><sup>9</sup>Her gates are sunk into the ground; he hath destroyed and broken her bars:</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Lam.2-p26">
Her king and her princes are among the nations where the law is not;</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Lam.2-p27">
Yea, her prophets find no vision from Jehovah.</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Lam.2-p28">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lam.2.10" data-parsed="Lam_2_10_0_0" data-passage="Lam 2.10" id="Lam.2.10"/><sup>10</sup>The elders of the daughter of Zion sit upon the ground, they keep silence;</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Lam.2-p29">
They have cast up dust upon their heads; they have girded themselves with sackcloth:</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Lam.2-p30">
The virgins of Jerusalem hang down their heads to the ground.</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Lam.2-p31">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lam.2.11" data-parsed="Lam_2_11_0_0" data-passage="Lam 2.11" id="Lam.2.11"/><sup>11</sup>Mine eyes do fail with tears, my heart is troubled;</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Lam.2-p32">
My liver is poured upon the earth, because of the destruction of the daughter of my people,</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Lam.2-p33">
Because the young children and the sucklings swoon in the streets of the city.</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Lam.2-p34">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lam.2.12" data-parsed="Lam_2_12_0_0" data-passage="Lam 2.12" id="Lam.2.12"/><sup>12</sup>They say to their mothers, Where is grain and wine?</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Lam.2-p35">
When they swoon as the wounded in the streets of the city,</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Lam.2-p36">
When their soul is poured out into their mothers' bosom.</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Lam.2-p37">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lam.2.13" data-parsed="Lam_2_13_0_0" data-passage="Lam 2.13" id="Lam.2.13"/><sup>13</sup>What shall I testify unto thee? what shall I liken to thee, O daughter of Jerusalem?</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Lam.2-p38">
What shall I compare to thee, that I may comfort thee, O virgin daughter of Zion?</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Lam.2-p39">
For thy breach is great like the sea: who can heal thee?</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Lam.2-p40">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lam.2.14" data-parsed="Lam_2_14_0_0" data-passage="Lam 2.14" id="Lam.2.14"/><sup>14</sup>Thy prophets have seen for thee false and foolish visions;</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Lam.2-p41">
And they have not uncovered thine iniquity, to bring back thy captivity,</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Lam.2-p42">
But have seen for thee false oracles and causes of banishment.</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Lam.2-p43">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lam.2.15" data-parsed="Lam_2_15_0_0" data-passage="Lam 2.15" id="Lam.2.15"/><sup>15</sup>All that pass by clap their hands at thee;</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Lam.2-p44">
They hiss and wag their head at the daughter of Jerusalem, <i>saying</i>,</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Lam.2-p45">
Is this the city that men called The perfection of beauty, The joy of the whole earth?</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Lam.2-p46">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lam.2.16" data-parsed="Lam_2_16_0_0" data-passage="Lam 2.16" id="Lam.2.16"/><sup>16</sup>All thine enemies have opened their mouth wide against thee;</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Lam.2-p47">
They hiss and gnash the teeth; they say, We have swallowed her up;</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Lam.2-p48">
Certainly this is the day that we looked for; we have found, we have seen it.</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Lam.2-p49">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lam.2.17" data-parsed="Lam_2_17_0_0" data-passage="Lam 2.17" id="Lam.2.17"/><sup>17</sup>Jehovah hath done that which he purposed; he hath fulfilled his word that he commanded in the days of old;</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Lam.2-p50">
He hath thrown down, and hath not pitied:</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Lam.2-p51">
And he hath caused the enemy to rejoice over thee; he hath exalted the horn of thine adversaries.</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Lam.2-p52">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lam.2.18" data-parsed="Lam_2_18_0_0" data-passage="Lam 2.18" id="Lam.2.18"/><sup>18</sup>Their heart cried unto the Lord:</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Lam.2-p53">
O wall of the daughter of Zion, let tears run down like a river day and night;</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Lam.2-p54">
Give thyself no respite; let not the apple of thine eye cease.</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Lam.2-p55">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lam.2.19" data-parsed="Lam_2_19_0_0" data-passage="Lam 2.19" id="Lam.2.19"/><sup>19</sup>Arise, cry out in the night, at the beginning of the watches;</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Lam.2-p56">
Pour out thy heart like water before the face of the Lord:</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Lam.2-p57">
Lift up thy hands toward him for the life of thy young children, that faint for hunger at the head of every street.</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Lam.2-p58">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lam.2.20" data-parsed="Lam_2_20_0_0" data-passage="Lam 2.20" id="Lam.2.20"/><sup>20</sup>See, O Jehovah, and behold to whom thou hast done thus!</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Lam.2-p59">
Shall the women eat their fruit, the children that are dandled in the hands?</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Lam.2-p60">
Shall the priest and the prophet be slain in the sanctuary of the Lord?</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Lam.2-p61">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lam.2.21" data-parsed="Lam_2_21_0_0" data-passage="Lam 2.21" id="Lam.2.21"/><sup>21</sup>The youth and the old man lie on the ground in the streets;</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Lam.2-p62">
My virgins and my young men are fallen by the sword:</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Lam.2-p63">
Thou hast slain them in the day of thine anger; thou hast slaughtered,
<i>and</i> not pitied.</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Lam.2-p64">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lam.2.22" data-parsed="Lam_2_22_0_0" data-passage="Lam 2.22" id="Lam.2.22"/><sup>22</sup>Thou hast called, as in the day of a solemn assembly, my terrors on every side;</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Lam.2-p65">
And there was none that escaped or remained in the day of Jehovah's anger:</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Lam.2-p66">
Those that I have dandled and brought up hath mine enemy consumed.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>