<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Lamentations 4</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Lamentations 4</span></div><div data-next="Lam.5" data-prev="Lam.3" data-progress="67.16%" data-shorttitle="" id="Lam.4" title="Lamentations 4">
<h2 id="Lam.4-p0.1">4</h2>
<p class="poetry" id="Lam.4-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lam.4.1" data-parsed="Lam_4_1_0_0" data-passage="Lam 4.1" id="Lam.4.1"/><sup>1</sup>How is the gold become dim! <i>how</i> is the most pure gold changed!</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Lam.4-p2">
The stones of the sanctuary are poured out at the head of every street.</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Lam.4-p3">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lam.4.2" data-parsed="Lam_4_2_0_0" data-passage="Lam 4.2" id="Lam.4.2"/><sup>2</sup>The precious sons of Zion, comparable to fine gold,</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Lam.4-p4">
How are they esteemed as earthen pitchers, the work of the hands of the potter!</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Lam.4-p5">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lam.4.3" data-parsed="Lam_4_3_0_0" data-passage="Lam 4.3" id="Lam.4.3"/><sup>3</sup>Even the jackals draw out the breast, they give suck to their young ones:</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Lam.4-p6">
The daughter of my people is become cruel, like the ostriches in the wilderness.</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Lam.4-p7">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lam.4.4" data-parsed="Lam_4_4_0_0" data-passage="Lam 4.4" id="Lam.4.4"/><sup>4</sup>The tongue of the sucking child cleaveth to the roof of his mouth for thirst:</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Lam.4-p8">
The young children ask bread, and no man breaketh it unto them.</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Lam.4-p9">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lam.4.5" data-parsed="Lam_4_5_0_0" data-passage="Lam 4.5" id="Lam.4.5"/><sup>5</sup>They that did feed delicately are desolate in the streets:</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Lam.4-p10">
They that were brought up in scarlet embrace dunghills.</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Lam.4-p11">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lam.4.6" data-parsed="Lam_4_6_0_0" data-passage="Lam 4.6" id="Lam.4.6"/><sup>6</sup>For the iniquity of the daughter of my people is greater than the sin of Sodom,</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Lam.4-p12">
That was overthrown as in a moment, and no hands were laid upon her.</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Lam.4-p13">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lam.4.7" data-parsed="Lam_4_7_0_0" data-passage="Lam 4.7" id="Lam.4.7"/><sup>7</sup>Her nobles were purer than snow, they were whiter than milk;</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Lam.4-p14">
They were more ruddy in body than rubies, their polishing was as of sapphire.</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Lam.4-p15">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lam.4.8" data-parsed="Lam_4_8_0_0" data-passage="Lam 4.8" id="Lam.4.8"/><sup>8</sup>Their visage is blacker than a coal; they are not known in the streets:</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Lam.4-p16">
Their skin cleaveth to their bones; it is withered, it is become like a stick.</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Lam.4-p17">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lam.4.9" data-parsed="Lam_4_9_0_0" data-passage="Lam 4.9" id="Lam.4.9"/><sup>9</sup>They that are slain with the sword are better than they that are slain with hunger;</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Lam.4-p18">
For these pine away, stricken through, for want of the fruits of the field.</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Lam.4-p19">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lam.4.10" data-parsed="Lam_4_10_0_0" data-passage="Lam 4.10" id="Lam.4.10"/><sup>10</sup>The hands of the pitiful women have boiled their own children;</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Lam.4-p20">
They were their food in the destruction of the daughter of my people.</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Lam.4-p21">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lam.4.11" data-parsed="Lam_4_11_0_0" data-passage="Lam 4.11" id="Lam.4.11"/><sup>11</sup>Jehovah hath accomplished his wrath, he hath poured out his fierce anger;</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Lam.4-p22">
And he hath kindled a fire in Zion, which hath devoured the foundations thereof.</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Lam.4-p23">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lam.4.12" data-parsed="Lam_4_12_0_0" data-passage="Lam 4.12" id="Lam.4.12"/><sup>12</sup>The kings of the earth believed not, neither all the inhabitants of the world,</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Lam.4-p24">
That the adversary and the enemy would enter into the gates of Jerusalem.</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Lam.4-p25">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lam.4.13" data-parsed="Lam_4_13_0_0" data-passage="Lam 4.13" id="Lam.4.13"/><sup>13</sup><i>It is</i> because of the sins of her prophets, <i>and</i> the iniquities of her priests,</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Lam.4-p26">
That have shed the blood of the just in the midst of her.</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Lam.4-p27">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lam.4.14" data-parsed="Lam_4_14_0_0" data-passage="Lam 4.14" id="Lam.4.14"/><sup>14</sup>They wander as blind men in the streets, they are polluted with blood,</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Lam.4-p28">
So that men cannot touch their garments.</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Lam.4-p29">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lam.4.15" data-parsed="Lam_4_15_0_0" data-passage="Lam 4.15" id="Lam.4.15"/><sup>15</sup>Depart ye, they cried unto them, Unclean! depart, depart, touch not!</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Lam.4-p30">
When they fled away and wandered, men said among the nations, They shall no more sojourn <i>here</i>.</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Lam.4-p31">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lam.4.16" data-parsed="Lam_4_16_0_0" data-passage="Lam 4.16" id="Lam.4.16"/><sup>16</sup>The anger of Jehovah hath scattered them; he will no more regard them:</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Lam.4-p32">
They respected not the persons of the priests, they favored not the elders.</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Lam.4-p33">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lam.4.17" data-parsed="Lam_4_17_0_0" data-passage="Lam 4.17" id="Lam.4.17"/><sup>17</sup>Our eyes do yet fail <i>in looking</i> for our vain help:</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Lam.4-p34">
In our watching we have watched for a nation that could not save.</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Lam.4-p35">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lam.4.18" data-parsed="Lam_4_18_0_0" data-passage="Lam 4.18" id="Lam.4.18"/><sup>18</sup>They hunt our steps, so that we cannot go in our streets:</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Lam.4-p36">
Our end is near, our days are fulfilled; for our end is come.</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Lam.4-p37">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lam.4.19" data-parsed="Lam_4_19_0_0" data-passage="Lam 4.19" id="Lam.4.19"/><sup>19</sup>Our pursuers were swifter than the eagles of the heavens:</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Lam.4-p38">
They chased us upon the mountains, they laid wait for us in the wilderness.</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Lam.4-p39">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lam.4.20" data-parsed="Lam_4_20_0_0" data-passage="Lam 4.20" id="Lam.4.20"/><sup>20</sup>The breath of our nostrils, the anointed of Jehovah, was taken in their pits;</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Lam.4-p40">
Of whom we said, Under his shadow we shall live among the nations.</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Lam.4-p41">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lam.4.21" data-parsed="Lam_4_21_0_0" data-passage="Lam 4.21" id="Lam.4.21"/><sup>21</sup>Rejoice and be glad, O daughter of Edom, that dwellest in the land of Uz:</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Lam.4-p42">
The cup shall pass through unto thee also; thou shalt be drunken, and shalt make thyself naked.</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Lam.4-p43">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lam.4.22" data-parsed="Lam_4_22_0_0" data-passage="Lam 4.22" id="Lam.4.22"/><sup>22</sup>The punishment of thine iniquity is accomplished, O daughter of Zion;
he will no more carry thee away into captivity:</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Lam.4-p44">
He will visit thine iniquity, O daughter of Edom; he will uncover thy sins.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>