<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Leviticus 19</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Leviticus 19</span></div><div data-next="Lev.20" data-prev="Lev.18" data-progress="11.69%" data-shorttitle="" id="Lev.19" title="Leviticus 19">
<h2 id="Lev.19-p0.1">19</h2>
<p id="Lev.19-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.19.1" data-parsed="Lev_19_1_0_0" data-passage="Lev 19.1" id="Lev.19.1"/><sup>1</sup>And Jehovah spake unto Moses, saying, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.19.2" data-parsed="Lev_19_2_0_0" data-passage="Lev 19.2" id="Lev.19.2"/><sup>2</sup>Speak unto all the congregation of the children of Israel, and say unto them, Ye shall be holy;
for I Jehovah your God am holy. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.19.3" data-parsed="Lev_19_3_0_0" data-passage="Lev 19.3" id="Lev.19.3"/><sup>3</sup>Ye shall fear every man his mother, and his father; and ye shall keep my sabbaths: I am Jehovah your God. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.19.4" data-parsed="Lev_19_4_0_0" data-passage="Lev 19.4" id="Lev.19.4"/><sup>4</sup>Turn ye not unto idols, nor make to yourselves molten gods: I am Jehovah your God.</p>
<p id="Lev.19-p2">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.19.5" data-parsed="Lev_19_5_0_0" data-passage="Lev 19.5" id="Lev.19.5"/><sup>5</sup>And when ye offer a sacrifice of peace-offerings unto Jehovah, ye shall offer it that ye may be accepted. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.19.6" data-parsed="Lev_19_6_0_0" data-passage="Lev 19.6" id="Lev.19.6"/><sup>6</sup>It shall be eaten the same day ye offer it, and on the morrow: and if aught remain until the third day, it shall be burnt with fire. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.19.7" data-parsed="Lev_19_7_0_0" data-passage="Lev 19.7" id="Lev.19.7"/><sup>7</sup>And if it be eaten at all on the third day, it is an abomination; it shall not be accepted: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.19.8" data-parsed="Lev_19_8_0_0" data-passage="Lev 19.8" id="Lev.19.8"/><sup>8</sup>but every one that eateth it shall bear his iniquity, because he hath profaned the holy thing of Jehovah: and that soul shall be cut off from his people.</p>
<p id="Lev.19-p3">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.19.9" data-parsed="Lev_19_9_0_0" data-passage="Lev 19.9" id="Lev.19.9"/><sup>9</sup>And when ye reap the harvest of your land, thou shalt not wholly reap the corners of thy field, neither shalt thou gather the gleaning of thy harvest. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.19.10" data-parsed="Lev_19_10_0_0" data-passage="Lev 19.10" id="Lev.19.10"/><sup>10</sup>And thou shalt not glean thy vineyard, neither shalt thou gather the fallen fruit of thy vineyard; thou shalt leave them for the poor and for the sojourner: I am Jehovah your God.</p>
<p id="Lev.19-p4">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.19.11" data-parsed="Lev_19_11_0_0" data-passage="Lev 19.11" id="Lev.19.11"/><sup>11</sup>Ye shall not steal; neither shall ye deal falsely, nor lie one to another. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.19.12" data-parsed="Lev_19_12_0_0" data-passage="Lev 19.12" id="Lev.19.12"/><sup>12</sup>And ye shall not swear by my name falsely, and profane the name of thy God: I am Jehovah.</p>
<p id="Lev.19-p5">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.19.13" data-parsed="Lev_19_13_0_0" data-passage="Lev 19.13" id="Lev.19.13"/><sup>13</sup>Thou shalt not oppress thy neighbor, nor rob him: the wages of a hired servant shall not abide with thee all night until the morning. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.19.14" data-parsed="Lev_19_14_0_0" data-passage="Lev 19.14" id="Lev.19.14"/><sup>14</sup>Thou shalt not curse the deaf, nor put a stumblingblock before the blind; but thou shalt fear thy God: I am Jehovah.</p>
<p id="Lev.19-p6">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.19.15" data-parsed="Lev_19_15_0_0" data-passage="Lev 19.15" id="Lev.19.15"/><sup>15</sup>Ye shall do no unrighteousness in judgment: thou shalt not respect the person of the poor, nor honor the person of the mighty; but in righteousness shalt thou judge thy neighbor. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.19.16" data-parsed="Lev_19_16_0_0" data-passage="Lev 19.16" id="Lev.19.16"/><sup>16</sup>Thou shalt not go up and down as a talebearer among thy people: neither shalt thou stand against the blood of thy neighbor: I am Jehovah.</p>
<p id="Lev.19-p7">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.19.17" data-parsed="Lev_19_17_0_0" data-passage="Lev 19.17" id="Lev.19.17"/><sup>17</sup>Thou shalt not hate thy brother in thy heart: thou shalt surely rebuke thy neighbor, and not bear sin because of him. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.19.18" data-parsed="Lev_19_18_0_0" data-passage="Lev 19.18" id="Lev.19.18"/><sup>18</sup>Thou shalt not take vengeance, nor bear any grudge against the children of thy people; but thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself: I am Jehovah.</p>
<p id="Lev.19-p8">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.19.19" data-parsed="Lev_19_19_0_0" data-passage="Lev 19.19" id="Lev.19.19"/><sup>19</sup>Ye shall keep my statutes. Thou shalt not let thy cattle gender with a diverse kind: thou shalt not sow thy field with two kinds of seed: neither shall there come upon thee a garment of two kinds of stuff mingled together.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.19.20" data-parsed="Lev_19_20_0_0" data-passage="Lev 19.20" id="Lev.19.20"/><sup>20</sup>And whosoever lieth carnally with a woman, that is a bondmaid,
betrothed to a husband, and not at all redeemed, nor freedom given her; they shall be punished; they shall not be put to death, because she was not free.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.19.21" data-parsed="Lev_19_21_0_0" data-passage="Lev 19.21" id="Lev.19.21"/><sup>21</sup>And he shall bring his trespass-offering unto Jehovah, unto the door of the tent of meeting, even a ram for a trespass-offering. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.19.22" data-parsed="Lev_19_22_0_0" data-passage="Lev 19.22" id="Lev.19.22"/><sup>22</sup>And the priest shall make atonement for him with the ram of the trespass-offering before Jehovah for his sin which he hath sinned: and the sin which he hath sinned shall be forgiven him. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.19.23" data-parsed="Lev_19_23_0_0" data-passage="Lev 19.23" id="Lev.19.23"/><sup>23</sup>And when ye shall come into the land, and shall have planted all manner of trees for food, then ye shall count the fruit thereof as their uncircumcision: three years shall they be as uncircumcised unto you; it shall not be eaten. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.19.24" data-parsed="Lev_19_24_0_0" data-passage="Lev 19.24" id="Lev.19.24"/><sup>24</sup>But in the fourth year all the fruit thereof shall be holy, for giving praise unto Jehovah. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.19.25" data-parsed="Lev_19_25_0_0" data-passage="Lev 19.25" id="Lev.19.25"/><sup>25</sup>And in the fifth year shall ye eat of the fruit thereof, that it may yield unto you the increase thereof: I am Jehovah your God.</p>
<p id="Lev.19-p9">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.19.26" data-parsed="Lev_19_26_0_0" data-passage="Lev 19.26" id="Lev.19.26"/><sup>26</sup>Ye shall not eat anything with the blood: neither shall ye use enchantments, nor practise augury. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.19.27" data-parsed="Lev_19_27_0_0" data-passage="Lev 19.27" id="Lev.19.27"/><sup>27</sup>Ye shall not round the corners of your heads, neither shalt thou mar the corners of thy beard. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.19.28" data-parsed="Lev_19_28_0_0" data-passage="Lev 19.28" id="Lev.19.28"/><sup>28</sup>Ye shall not make any cuttings in your flesh for the dead, nor print any marks upon you: I am Jehovah.</p>
<p id="Lev.19-p10">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.19.29" data-parsed="Lev_19_29_0_0" data-passage="Lev 19.29" id="Lev.19.29"/><sup>29</sup>Profane not thy daughter, to make her a harlot; lest the land fall to whoredom, and the land become full of wickedness. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.19.30" data-parsed="Lev_19_30_0_0" data-passage="Lev 19.30" id="Lev.19.30"/><sup>30</sup>Ye shall keep my sabbaths, and reverence my sanctuary; I am Jehovah.</p>
<p id="Lev.19-p11">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.19.31" data-parsed="Lev_19_31_0_0" data-passage="Lev 19.31" id="Lev.19.31"/><sup>31</sup>Turn ye not unto them that have familiar spirits, nor unto the wizards;
seek them not out, to be defiled by them: I am Jehovah your God.</p>
<p id="Lev.19-p12">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.19.32" data-parsed="Lev_19_32_0_0" data-passage="Lev 19.32" id="Lev.19.32"/><sup>32</sup>Thou shalt rise up before the hoary head, and honor the face of the old man, and thou shalt fear thy God: I am Jehovah.</p>
<p id="Lev.19-p13">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.19.33" data-parsed="Lev_19_33_0_0" data-passage="Lev 19.33" id="Lev.19.33"/><sup>33</sup>And if a stranger sojourn with thee in your land, ye shall not do him wrong. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.19.34" data-parsed="Lev_19_34_0_0" data-passage="Lev 19.34" id="Lev.19.34"/><sup>34</sup>The stranger that sojourneth with you shall be unto you as the home-born among you, and thou shalt love him as thyself; for ye were sojourners in the land of Egypt: I am Jehovah your God.</p>
<p id="Lev.19-p14">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.19.35" data-parsed="Lev_19_35_0_0" data-passage="Lev 19.35" id="Lev.19.35"/><sup>35</sup>Ye shall do no unrighteousness in judgment, in measures of length, of weight, or of quantity. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.19.36" data-parsed="Lev_19_36_0_0" data-passage="Lev 19.36" id="Lev.19.36"/><sup>36</sup>Just balances, just weights, a just ephah, and a just hin, shall ye have: I am Jehovah your God, who brought you out of the land of Egypt. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.19.37" data-parsed="Lev_19_37_0_0" data-passage="Lev 19.37" id="Lev.19.37"/><sup>37</sup>And ye shall observe all my statutes, and all mine ordinances, and do them: I am Jehovah.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>