<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Leviticus 18</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Leviticus 18</span></div><div data-next="Lev.19" data-prev="Lev.17" data-progress="11.60%" data-shorttitle="" id="Lev.18" title="Leviticus 18">
<h2 id="Lev.18-p0.1">18</h2>
<p id="Lev.18-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.18.1" data-parsed="Lev_18_1_0_0" data-passage="Lev 18.1" id="Lev.18.1"/><sup>1</sup>And Jehovah spake unto Moses, saying, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.18.2" data-parsed="Lev_18_2_0_0" data-passage="Lev 18.2" id="Lev.18.2"/><sup>2</sup>Speak unto the children of Israel, and say unto them, I am Jehovah your God. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.18.3" data-parsed="Lev_18_3_0_0" data-passage="Lev 18.3" id="Lev.18.3"/><sup>3</sup>After the doings of the land of Egypt, wherein ye dwelt, shall ye not do: and after the doings of the land of Canaan, whither I bring you, shall ye not do; neither shall ye walk in their statutes. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.18.4" data-parsed="Lev_18_4_0_0" data-passage="Lev 18.4" id="Lev.18.4"/><sup>4</sup>Mine ordinances shall ye do, and my statutes shall ye keep, to walk therein: I am Jehovah your God. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.18.5" data-parsed="Lev_18_5_0_0" data-passage="Lev 18.5" id="Lev.18.5"/><sup>5</sup>Ye shall therefore keep my statutes, and mine ordinances; which if a man do, he shall live in them: I am Jehovah.</p>
<p id="Lev.18-p2">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.18.6" data-parsed="Lev_18_6_0_0" data-passage="Lev 18.6" id="Lev.18.6"/><sup>6</sup>None of you shall approach to any that are near of kin to him, to uncover <i>their</i> nakedness: I am Jehovah. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.18.7" data-parsed="Lev_18_7_0_0" data-passage="Lev 18.7" id="Lev.18.7"/><sup>7</sup>The nakedness of thy father, even the nakedness of thy mother, shalt thou not uncover: she is thy mother; thou shalt not uncover her nakedness. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.18.8" data-parsed="Lev_18_8_0_0" data-passage="Lev 18.8" id="Lev.18.8"/><sup>8</sup>The nakedness of thy father's wife shalt thou not uncover: it is thy father's nakedness. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.18.9" data-parsed="Lev_18_9_0_0" data-passage="Lev 18.9" id="Lev.18.9"/><sup>9</sup>The nakedness of thy sister, the daughter of thy father, or the daughter of thy mother, whether born at home, or born abroad, even their nakedness thou shalt not uncover. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.18.10" data-parsed="Lev_18_10_0_0" data-passage="Lev 18.10" id="Lev.18.10"/><sup>10</sup>The nakedness of thy son's daughter, or of thy daughter's daughter, even their nakedness thou shalt not uncover: for theirs is thine own nakedness. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.18.11" data-parsed="Lev_18_11_0_0" data-passage="Lev 18.11" id="Lev.18.11"/><sup>11</sup>The nakedness of thy father's wife's daughter, begotten of thy father, she is thy sister, thou shalt not uncover her nakedness.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.18.12" data-parsed="Lev_18_12_0_0" data-passage="Lev 18.12" id="Lev.18.12"/><sup>12</sup>Thou shalt not uncover the nakedness of thy father's sister: she is thy father's near kinswoman. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.18.13" data-parsed="Lev_18_13_0_0" data-passage="Lev 18.13" id="Lev.18.13"/><sup>13</sup>Thou shalt not uncover the nakedness of thy mother's sister: for she is thy mother's near kinswoman. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.18.14" data-parsed="Lev_18_14_0_0" data-passage="Lev 18.14" id="Lev.18.14"/><sup>14</sup>Thou shalt not uncover the nakedness of thy father's brother, thou shalt not approach to his wife: she is thine aunt. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.18.15" data-parsed="Lev_18_15_0_0" data-passage="Lev 18.15" id="Lev.18.15"/><sup>15</sup>Thou shalt not uncover the nakedness of thy daughter-in-law: she is thy son's wife; thou shalt not uncover her nakedness.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.18.16" data-parsed="Lev_18_16_0_0" data-passage="Lev 18.16" id="Lev.18.16"/><sup>16</sup>Thou shalt not uncover the nakedness of thy brother's wife: it is thy brother's nakedness. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.18.17" data-parsed="Lev_18_17_0_0" data-passage="Lev 18.17" id="Lev.18.17"/><sup>17</sup>Thou shalt not uncover the nakedness of a woman and her daughter; thou shalt not take her son's daughter, or her daughter's daughter, to uncover her nakedness; they are near kinswomen: it is wickedness. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.18.18" data-parsed="Lev_18_18_0_0" data-passage="Lev 18.18" id="Lev.18.18"/><sup>18</sup>And thou shalt not take a wife to her sister, to be a rival <i>to her</i>, to uncover her nakedness, besides the other in her life-time.</p>
<p id="Lev.18-p3">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.18.19" data-parsed="Lev_18_19_0_0" data-passage="Lev 18.19" id="Lev.18.19"/><sup>19</sup>And thou shalt not approach unto a woman to uncover her nakedness, as long as she is impure by her uncleanness. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.18.20" data-parsed="Lev_18_20_0_0" data-passage="Lev 18.20" id="Lev.18.20"/><sup>20</sup>And thou shalt not lie carnally with thy neighbor's wife, to defile thyself with her. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.18.21" data-parsed="Lev_18_21_0_0" data-passage="Lev 18.21" id="Lev.18.21"/><sup>21</sup>And thou shalt not give any of thy seed to make them pass through <i>the fire</i> to Molech; neither shalt thou profane the name of thy God: I am Jehovah.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.18.22" data-parsed="Lev_18_22_0_0" data-passage="Lev 18.22" id="Lev.18.22"/><sup>22</sup>Thou shalt not lie with mankind, as with womankind: it is abomination.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.18.23" data-parsed="Lev_18_23_0_0" data-passage="Lev 18.23" id="Lev.18.23"/><sup>23</sup>And thou shalt not lie with any beast to defile thyself therewith;
neither shall any woman stand before a beast, to lie down thereto: it is confusion.</p>
<p id="Lev.18-p4">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.18.24" data-parsed="Lev_18_24_0_0" data-passage="Lev 18.24" id="Lev.18.24"/><sup>24</sup>Defile not ye yourselves in any of these things: for in all these the nations are defiled which I cast out from before you; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.18.25" data-parsed="Lev_18_25_0_0" data-passage="Lev 18.25" id="Lev.18.25"/><sup>25</sup>And the land is defiled: therefore I do visit the iniquity thereof upon it, and the land vomiteth out her inhabitants. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.18.26" data-parsed="Lev_18_26_0_0" data-passage="Lev 18.26" id="Lev.18.26"/><sup>26</sup>Ye therefore shall keep my statutes and mine ordinances, and shall not do any of these abominations; neither the home-born, nor the stranger that sojourneth among you; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.18.27" data-parsed="Lev_18_27_0_0" data-passage="Lev 18.27" id="Lev.18.27"/><sup>27</sup>(for all these abominations have the men of the land done, that were before you, and the land is defiled); 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.18.28" data-parsed="Lev_18_28_0_0" data-passage="Lev 18.28" id="Lev.18.28"/><sup>28</sup>that the land vomit not you out also, when ye defile it, as it vomited out the nation that was before you. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.18.29" data-parsed="Lev_18_29_0_0" data-passage="Lev 18.29" id="Lev.18.29"/><sup>29</sup>For whosoever shall do any of these abominations, even the souls that do them shall be cut off from among their people. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.18.30" data-parsed="Lev_18_30_0_0" data-passage="Lev 18.30" id="Lev.18.30"/><sup>30</sup>Therefore shall ye keep my charge, that ye practise not any of these abominable customs, which were practised before you, and that ye defile not yourselves therein: I am Jehovah your God.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>