<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Leviticus 27</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Leviticus 27</span></div><div data-next="Num" data-prev="Lev.26" data-progress="12.64%" data-shorttitle="" id="Lev.27" title="Leviticus 27">
<h2 id="Lev.27-p0.1">27</h2>
<p id="Lev.27-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.27.1" data-parsed="Lev_27_1_0_0" data-passage="Lev 27.1" id="Lev.27.1"/><sup>1</sup>And Jehovah spake unto Moses, saying, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.27.2" data-parsed="Lev_27_2_0_0" data-passage="Lev 27.2" id="Lev.27.2"/><sup>2</sup>Speak unto the children of Israel, and say unto them, When a man shall accomplish a vow, the persons shall be for Jehovah by thy estimation. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.27.3" data-parsed="Lev_27_3_0_0" data-passage="Lev 27.3" id="Lev.27.3"/><sup>3</sup>And thy estimation shall be of the male from twenty years old even unto sixty years old, even thy estimation shall be fifty shekels of silver, after the shekel of the sanctuary. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.27.4" data-parsed="Lev_27_4_0_0" data-passage="Lev 27.4" id="Lev.27.4"/><sup>4</sup>And if it be a female, then thy estimation shall be thirty shekels. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.27.5" data-parsed="Lev_27_5_0_0" data-passage="Lev 27.5" id="Lev.27.5"/><sup>5</sup>And if it be from five years old even unto twenty years old, then thy estimation shall be of the male twenty shekels, and for the female ten shekels. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.27.6" data-parsed="Lev_27_6_0_0" data-passage="Lev 27.6" id="Lev.27.6"/><sup>6</sup>And if it be from a month old even unto five years old, then thy estimation shall be of the male five shekels of silver, and for the female thy estimation shall be three shekels of silver. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.27.7" data-parsed="Lev_27_7_0_0" data-passage="Lev 27.7" id="Lev.27.7"/><sup>7</sup>And if it be from sixty years old and upward; if it be a male, then thy estimation shall be fifteen shekels, and for the female ten shekels. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.27.8" data-parsed="Lev_27_8_0_0" data-passage="Lev 27.8" id="Lev.27.8"/><sup>8</sup>But if he be poorer than thy estimation,
then he shall be set before the priest, and the priest shall value him;
according to the ability of him that vowed shall the priest value him.</p>
<p id="Lev.27-p2">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.27.9" data-parsed="Lev_27_9_0_0" data-passage="Lev 27.9" id="Lev.27.9"/><sup>9</sup>And if it be a beast, whereof men offer an oblation unto Jehovah, all that any man giveth of such unto Jehovah shall be holy. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.27.10" data-parsed="Lev_27_10_0_0" data-passage="Lev 27.10" id="Lev.27.10"/><sup>10</sup>He shall not alter it, nor change it, a good for a bad, or a bad for a good: and if he shall at all change beast for beast, then both it and that for which it is changed shall be holy. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.27.11" data-parsed="Lev_27_11_0_0" data-passage="Lev 27.11" id="Lev.27.11"/><sup>11</sup>And if it be any unclean beast, of which they do not offer an oblation unto Jehovah, then he shall set the beast before the priest; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.27.12" data-parsed="Lev_27_12_0_0" data-passage="Lev 27.12" id="Lev.27.12"/><sup>12</sup>and the priest shall value it, whether it be good or bad: as thou the priest valuest it, so shall it be. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.27.13" data-parsed="Lev_27_13_0_0" data-passage="Lev 27.13" id="Lev.27.13"/><sup>13</sup>But if he will indeed redeem it, then he shall add the fifth part thereof unto thy estimation.</p>
<p id="Lev.27-p3">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.27.14" data-parsed="Lev_27_14_0_0" data-passage="Lev 27.14" id="Lev.27.14"/><sup>14</sup>And when a man shall sanctify his house to be holy unto Jehovah, then the priest shall estimate it, whether it be good or bad: as the priest shall estimate it, so shall it stand. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.27.15" data-parsed="Lev_27_15_0_0" data-passage="Lev 27.15" id="Lev.27.15"/><sup>15</sup>And if he that sanctified it will redeem his house, then he shall add the fifth part of the money of thy estimation unto it, and it shall be his.</p>
<p id="Lev.27-p4">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.27.16" data-parsed="Lev_27_16_0_0" data-passage="Lev 27.16" id="Lev.27.16"/><sup>16</sup>And if a man shall sanctify unto Jehovah part of the field of his possession, then thy estimation shall be according to the sowing thereof: the sowing of a homer of barley <i>shall be valued</i> at fifty shekels of silver. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.27.17" data-parsed="Lev_27_17_0_0" data-passage="Lev 27.17" id="Lev.27.17"/><sup>17</sup>If he sanctify his field from the year of jubilee, according to thy estimation it shall stand. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.27.18" data-parsed="Lev_27_18_0_0" data-passage="Lev 27.18" id="Lev.27.18"/><sup>18</sup>But if he sanctify his field after the jubilee, then the priest shall reckon unto him the money according to the years that remain unto the year of jubilee; and an abatement shall be made from thy estimation. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.27.19" data-parsed="Lev_27_19_0_0" data-passage="Lev 27.19" id="Lev.27.19"/><sup>19</sup>And if he that sanctified the field will indeed redeem it, then he shall add the fifth part of the money of thy estimation unto it, and it shall be assured to him. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.27.20" data-parsed="Lev_27_20_0_0" data-passage="Lev 27.20" id="Lev.27.20"/><sup>20</sup>And if he will not redeem the field, or if he have sold the field to another man, it shall not be redeemed any more: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.27.21" data-parsed="Lev_27_21_0_0" data-passage="Lev 27.21" id="Lev.27.21"/><sup>21</sup>but the field, when it goeth out in the jubilee, shall be holy unto Jehovah, as a field devoted; the possession thereof shall be the priest's. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.27.22" data-parsed="Lev_27_22_0_0" data-passage="Lev 27.22" id="Lev.27.22"/><sup>22</sup>And if he sanctify unto Jehovah a field which he hath bought,
which is not of the field of his possession; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.27.23" data-parsed="Lev_27_23_0_0" data-passage="Lev 27.23" id="Lev.27.23"/><sup>23</sup>then the priest shall reckon unto him the worth of thy estimation unto the year of jubilee: and he shall give thine estimation in that day, as a holy thing unto Jehovah.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.27.24" data-parsed="Lev_27_24_0_0" data-passage="Lev 27.24" id="Lev.27.24"/><sup>24</sup>In the year of jubilee the field shall return unto him of whom it was bought, even to him to whom the possession of the land belongeth. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.27.25" data-parsed="Lev_27_25_0_0" data-passage="Lev 27.25" id="Lev.27.25"/><sup>25</sup>And all thy estimations shall be according to the shekel of the sanctuary: twenty gerahs shall be the shekel.</p>
<p id="Lev.27-p5">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.27.26" data-parsed="Lev_27_26_0_0" data-passage="Lev 27.26" id="Lev.27.26"/><sup>26</sup>Only the firstling among beasts, which is made a firstling to Jehovah,
no man shall sanctify it; whether it be ox or sheep, it is Jehovah's.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.27.27" data-parsed="Lev_27_27_0_0" data-passage="Lev 27.27" id="Lev.27.27"/><sup>27</sup>And if it be of an unclean beast, then he shall ransom it according to thine estimation, and shall add unto it the fifth part thereof: or if it be not redeemed, then it shall be sold according to thy estimation.</p>
<p id="Lev.27-p6">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.27.28" data-parsed="Lev_27_28_0_0" data-passage="Lev 27.28" id="Lev.27.28"/><sup>28</sup>Notwithstanding, no devoted thing, that a man shall devote unto Jehovah of all that he hath, whether of man or beast, or of the field of his possession, shall be sold or redeemed: every devoted thing is most holy unto Jehovah. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.27.29" data-parsed="Lev_27_29_0_0" data-passage="Lev 27.29" id="Lev.27.29"/><sup>29</sup>No one devoted, that shall be devoted from among men, shall be ransomed; he shall surely be put to death.</p>
<p id="Lev.27-p7">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.27.30" data-parsed="Lev_27_30_0_0" data-passage="Lev 27.30" id="Lev.27.30"/><sup>30</sup>And all the tithe of the land, whether of the seed of the land, or of the fruit of the tree, is Jehovah's: it is holy unto Jehovah. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.27.31" data-parsed="Lev_27_31_0_0" data-passage="Lev 27.31" id="Lev.27.31"/><sup>31</sup>And if a man will redeem aught of his tithe, he shall add unto it the fifth part thereof. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.27.32" data-parsed="Lev_27_32_0_0" data-passage="Lev 27.32" id="Lev.27.32"/><sup>32</sup>And all the tithe of the herd or the flock, whatsoever passeth under the rod, the tenth shall be holy unto Jehovah. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.27.33" data-parsed="Lev_27_33_0_0" data-passage="Lev 27.33" id="Lev.27.33"/><sup>33</sup>He shall not search whether it be good or bad, neither shall he change it: and if he change it at all, then both it and that for which it is changed shall be holy; it shall not be redeemed.</p>
<p id="Lev.27-p8">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.27.34" data-parsed="Lev_27_34_0_0" data-passage="Lev 27.34" id="Lev.27.34"/><sup>34</sup>These are the commandments, which Jehovah commanded Moses for the children of Israel in mount Sinai.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>