<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Leviticus 24</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Leviticus 24</span></div><div data-next="Lev.25" data-prev="Lev.23" data-progress="12.23%" data-shorttitle="" id="Lev.24" title="Leviticus 24">
<h2 id="Lev.24-p0.1">24</h2>
<p id="Lev.24-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.24.1" data-parsed="Lev_24_1_0_0" data-passage="Lev 24.1" id="Lev.24.1"/><sup>1</sup>And Jehovah spake unto Moses, saying, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.24.2" data-parsed="Lev_24_2_0_0" data-passage="Lev 24.2" id="Lev.24.2"/><sup>2</sup>Command the children of Israel, that they bring unto thee pure olive oil beaten for the light, to cause a lamp to burn continually. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.24.3" data-parsed="Lev_24_3_0_0" data-passage="Lev 24.3" id="Lev.24.3"/><sup>3</sup>Without the veil of the testimony, in the tent of meeting, shall Aaron keep it in order from evening to morning before Jehovah continually: it shall be a statute for ever throughout your generations. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.24.4" data-parsed="Lev_24_4_0_0" data-passage="Lev 24.4" id="Lev.24.4"/><sup>4</sup>He shall keep in order the lamps upon the pure candlestick before Jehovah continually.</p>
<p id="Lev.24-p2">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.24.5" data-parsed="Lev_24_5_0_0" data-passage="Lev 24.5" id="Lev.24.5"/><sup>5</sup>And thou shalt take fine flour, and bake twelve cakes thereof: two tenth parts <i>of an ephah</i> shall be in one cake. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.24.6" data-parsed="Lev_24_6_0_0" data-passage="Lev 24.6" id="Lev.24.6"/><sup>6</sup>And thou shalt set them in two rows, six on a row, upon the pure table before Jehovah. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.24.7" data-parsed="Lev_24_7_0_0" data-passage="Lev 24.7" id="Lev.24.7"/><sup>7</sup>And thou shalt put pure frankincense upon each row, that it may be to the bread for a memorial, even an offering made by fire unto Jehovah. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.24.8" data-parsed="Lev_24_8_0_0" data-passage="Lev 24.8" id="Lev.24.8"/><sup>8</sup>Every sabbath day he shall set it in order before Jehovah continually; it is on the behalf of the children of Israel, an everlasting covenant. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.24.9" data-parsed="Lev_24_9_0_0" data-passage="Lev 24.9" id="Lev.24.9"/><sup>9</sup>And it shall be for Aaron and his sons; and they shall eat it in a holy place: for it is most holy unto him of the offerings of Jehovah made by fire by a perpetual statute.</p>
<p id="Lev.24-p3">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.24.10" data-parsed="Lev_24_10_0_0" data-passage="Lev 24.10" id="Lev.24.10"/><sup>10</sup>And the son of an Israelitish woman, whose father was an Egyptian, went out among the children of Israel; and the son of the Israelitish woman and a man of Israel strove together in the camp: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.24.11" data-parsed="Lev_24_11_0_0" data-passage="Lev 24.11" id="Lev.24.11"/><sup>11</sup>and the son of the Israelitish woman blasphemed the Name, and cursed; and they brought him unto Moses. And his mother's name was Shelomith, the daughter of Dibri, of the tribe of Dan. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.24.12" data-parsed="Lev_24_12_0_0" data-passage="Lev 24.12" id="Lev.24.12"/><sup>12</sup>And they put him in ward, that it might be declared unto them at the mouth of Jehovah.</p>
<p id="Lev.24-p4">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.24.13" data-parsed="Lev_24_13_0_0" data-passage="Lev 24.13" id="Lev.24.13"/><sup>13</sup>And Jehovah spake unto Moses, saying, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.24.14" data-parsed="Lev_24_14_0_0" data-passage="Lev 24.14" id="Lev.24.14"/><sup>14</sup>Bring forth him that hath cursed without the camp; and let all that heard him lay their hands upon his head, and let all the congregation stone him. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.24.15" data-parsed="Lev_24_15_0_0" data-passage="Lev 24.15" id="Lev.24.15"/><sup>15</sup>And thou shalt speak unto the children of Israel, saying, Whosoever curseth his God shall bear his sin.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.24.16" data-parsed="Lev_24_16_0_0" data-passage="Lev 24.16" id="Lev.24.16"/><sup>16</sup>And he that blasphemeth the name of Jehovah, he shall surely be put to death; all the congregation shall certainly stone him: as well the sojourner,
as the home-born, when he blasphemeth the name <i>of Jehovah</i>, shall be put to death. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.24.17" data-parsed="Lev_24_17_0_0" data-passage="Lev 24.17" id="Lev.24.17"/><sup>17</sup>And he that smiteth any man mortally shall surely be put to death. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.24.18" data-parsed="Lev_24_18_0_0" data-passage="Lev 24.18" id="Lev.24.18"/><sup>18</sup>And he that smiteth a beast mortally shall make it good, life for life. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.24.19" data-parsed="Lev_24_19_0_0" data-passage="Lev 24.19" id="Lev.24.19"/><sup>19</sup>And if a man cause a blemish in his neighbor; as he hath done, so shall it be done to him: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.24.20" data-parsed="Lev_24_20_0_0" data-passage="Lev 24.20" id="Lev.24.20"/><sup>20</sup>breach for breach, eye for eye, tooth for tooth; as he hath caused a blemish in a man, so shall it be rendered unto him. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.24.21" data-parsed="Lev_24_21_0_0" data-passage="Lev 24.21" id="Lev.24.21"/><sup>21</sup>And he that killeth a beast shall make it good: and he that killeth a man shall be put to death. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.24.22" data-parsed="Lev_24_22_0_0" data-passage="Lev 24.22" id="Lev.24.22"/><sup>22</sup>Ye shall have one manner of law,
as well for the sojourner, as for the home-born: for I am Jehovah your God.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.24.23" data-parsed="Lev_24_23_0_0" data-passage="Lev 24.23" id="Lev.24.23"/><sup>23</sup>And Moses spake to the children of Israel; and they brought forth him that had cursed out of the camp, and stoned him with stones. And the children of Israel did as Jehovah commanded Moses.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>