<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Leviticus 23</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Leviticus 23</span></div><div data-next="Lev.24" data-prev="Lev.22" data-progress="12.08%" data-shorttitle="" id="Lev.23" title="Leviticus 23">
<h2 id="Lev.23-p0.1">23</h2>
<p id="Lev.23-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.23.1" data-parsed="Lev_23_1_0_0" data-passage="Lev 23.1" id="Lev.23.1"/><sup>1</sup>And Jehovah spake unto Moses, saying, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.23.2" data-parsed="Lev_23_2_0_0" data-passage="Lev 23.2" id="Lev.23.2"/><sup>2</sup>Speak unto the children of Israel, and say unto them, The set feasts of Jehovah, which ye shall proclaim to be holy convocations, even these are my set feasts. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.23.3" data-parsed="Lev_23_3_0_0" data-passage="Lev 23.3" id="Lev.23.3"/><sup>3</sup>Six days shall work be done: but on the seventh day is a sabbath of solemn rest, a holy convocation; ye shall do no manner of work: it is a sabbath unto Jehovah in all your dwellings.</p>
<p id="Lev.23-p2">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.23.4" data-parsed="Lev_23_4_0_0" data-passage="Lev 23.4" id="Lev.23.4"/><sup>4</sup>These are the set feasts of Jehovah, even holy convocations, which ye shall proclaim in their appointed season. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.23.5" data-parsed="Lev_23_5_0_0" data-passage="Lev 23.5" id="Lev.23.5"/><sup>5</sup>In the first month, on the fourteenth day of the month at even, is Jehovah's passover. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.23.6" data-parsed="Lev_23_6_0_0" data-passage="Lev 23.6" id="Lev.23.6"/><sup>6</sup>And on the fifteenth day of the same month is the feast of unleavened bread unto Jehovah: seven days ye shall eat unleavened bread. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.23.7" data-parsed="Lev_23_7_0_0" data-passage="Lev 23.7" id="Lev.23.7"/><sup>7</sup>In the first day ye shall have a holy convocation: ye shall do no servile work. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.23.8" data-parsed="Lev_23_8_0_0" data-passage="Lev 23.8" id="Lev.23.8"/><sup>8</sup>But ye shall offer an offering made by fire unto Jehovah seven days: in the seventh day is a holy convocation; ye shall do no servile work.</p>
<p id="Lev.23-p3">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.23.9" data-parsed="Lev_23_9_0_0" data-passage="Lev 23.9" id="Lev.23.9"/><sup>9</sup>And Jehovah spake unto Moses, saying, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.23.10" data-parsed="Lev_23_10_0_0" data-passage="Lev 23.10" id="Lev.23.10"/><sup>10</sup>Speak unto the children of Israel, and say unto them, When ye are come into the land which I give unto you, and shall reap the harvest thereof, then ye shall bring the sheaf of the first-fruits of your harvest unto the priest: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.23.11" data-parsed="Lev_23_11_0_0" data-passage="Lev 23.11" id="Lev.23.11"/><sup>11</sup>and he shall wave the sheaf before Jehovah, to be accepted for you: on the morrow after the sabbath the priest shall wave it. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.23.12" data-parsed="Lev_23_12_0_0" data-passage="Lev 23.12" id="Lev.23.12"/><sup>12</sup>And in the day when ye wave the sheaf, ye shall offer a he-lamb without blemish a year old for a burnt-offering unto Jehovah. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.23.13" data-parsed="Lev_23_13_0_0" data-passage="Lev 23.13" id="Lev.23.13"/><sup>13</sup>And the meal-offering thereof shall be two tenth parts <i>of an ephah</i> of fine flour mingled with oil, an offering made by fire unto Jehovah for a sweet savor; and the drink-offering thereof shall be of wine,
the fourth part of a hin. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.23.14" data-parsed="Lev_23_14_0_0" data-passage="Lev 23.14" id="Lev.23.14"/><sup>14</sup>And ye shall eat neither bread, nor parched grain, nor fresh ears, until this selfsame day, until ye have brought the oblation of your God: it is a statute for ever throughout your generations in all your dwellings.</p>
<p id="Lev.23-p4">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.23.15" data-parsed="Lev_23_15_0_0" data-passage="Lev 23.15" id="Lev.23.15"/><sup>15</sup>And ye shall count unto you from the morrow after the sabbath, from the day that ye brought the sheaf of the wave-offering; seven sabbaths shall there be complete: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.23.16" data-parsed="Lev_23_16_0_0" data-passage="Lev 23.16" id="Lev.23.16"/><sup>16</sup>even unto the morrow after the seventh sabbath shall ye number fifty days; and ye shall offer a new meal-offering unto Jehovah.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.23.17" data-parsed="Lev_23_17_0_0" data-passage="Lev 23.17" id="Lev.23.17"/><sup>17</sup>Ye shall bring out of your habitations two wave-loaves of two tenth parts <i>of an ephah</i>: they shall be of fine flour, they shall be baken with leaven, for first-fruits unto Jehovah. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.23.18" data-parsed="Lev_23_18_0_0" data-passage="Lev 23.18" id="Lev.23.18"/><sup>18</sup>And ye shall present with the bread seven lambs without blemish a year old, and one young bullock, and two rams: they shall be a burnt-offering unto Jehovah, with their meal-offering, and their drink-offerings, even an offering made by fire, of a sweet savor unto Jehovah. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.23.19" data-parsed="Lev_23_19_0_0" data-passage="Lev 23.19" id="Lev.23.19"/><sup>19</sup>And ye shall offer one he-goat for a sin-offering, and two he-lambs a year old for a sacrifice of peace-offerings.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.23.20" data-parsed="Lev_23_20_0_0" data-passage="Lev 23.20" id="Lev.23.20"/><sup>20</sup>And the priest shall wave them with the bread of the first-fruits for a wave-offering before Jehovah, with the two lambs: they shall be holy to Jehovah for the priest. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.23.21" data-parsed="Lev_23_21_0_0" data-passage="Lev 23.21" id="Lev.23.21"/><sup>21</sup>And ye shall make proclamation on the selfsame day; there shall be a holy convocation unto you; ye shall do no servile work:
it is a statute for ever in all your dwellings throughout your generations.</p>
<p id="Lev.23-p5">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.23.22" data-parsed="Lev_23_22_0_0" data-passage="Lev 23.22" id="Lev.23.22"/><sup>22</sup>And when ye reap the harvest of your land, thou shalt not wholly reap the corners of thy field, neither shalt thou gather the gleaning of thy harvest: thou shalt leave them for the poor, and for the sojourner: I am Jehovah your God.</p>
<p id="Lev.23-p6">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.23.23" data-parsed="Lev_23_23_0_0" data-passage="Lev 23.23" id="Lev.23.23"/><sup>23</sup>And Jehovah spake unto Moses, saying, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.23.24" data-parsed="Lev_23_24_0_0" data-passage="Lev 23.24" id="Lev.23.24"/><sup>24</sup>Speak unto the children of Israel, saying, In the seventh month, on the first day of the month, shall be a solemn rest unto you, a memorial of blowing of trumpets, a holy convocation. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.23.25" data-parsed="Lev_23_25_0_0" data-passage="Lev 23.25" id="Lev.23.25"/><sup>25</sup>Ye shall do no servile work; and ye shall offer an offering made by fire unto Jehovah.</p>
<p id="Lev.23-p7">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.23.26" data-parsed="Lev_23_26_0_0" data-passage="Lev 23.26" id="Lev.23.26"/><sup>26</sup>And Jehovah spake unto Moses, saying, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.23.27" data-parsed="Lev_23_27_0_0" data-passage="Lev 23.27" id="Lev.23.27"/><sup>27</sup>Howbeit on the tenth day of this seventh month is the day of atonement: it shall be a holy convocation unto you, and ye shall afflict your souls; and ye shall offer an offering made by fire unto Jehovah. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.23.28" data-parsed="Lev_23_28_0_0" data-passage="Lev 23.28" id="Lev.23.28"/><sup>28</sup>And ye shall do no manner of work in that same day; for it is a day of atonement, to make atonement for you before Jehovah your God. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.23.29" data-parsed="Lev_23_29_0_0" data-passage="Lev 23.29" id="Lev.23.29"/><sup>29</sup>For whatsoever soul it be that shall not be afflicted in that same day; he shall be cut off from his people. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.23.30" data-parsed="Lev_23_30_0_0" data-passage="Lev 23.30" id="Lev.23.30"/><sup>30</sup>And whatsoever soul it be that doeth any manner of work in that same day, that soul will I destroy from among his people. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.23.31" data-parsed="Lev_23_31_0_0" data-passage="Lev 23.31" id="Lev.23.31"/><sup>31</sup>Ye shall do no manner of work: it is a statute for ever throughout your generations in all your dwellings. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.23.32" data-parsed="Lev_23_32_0_0" data-passage="Lev 23.32" id="Lev.23.32"/><sup>32</sup>It shall be unto you a sabbath of solemn rest, and ye shall afflict your souls:
in the ninth day of the month at even, from even unto even, shall ye keep your sabbath.</p>
<p id="Lev.23-p8">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.23.33" data-parsed="Lev_23_33_0_0" data-passage="Lev 23.33" id="Lev.23.33"/><sup>33</sup>And Jehovah spake unto Moses, saying, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.23.34" data-parsed="Lev_23_34_0_0" data-passage="Lev 23.34" id="Lev.23.34"/><sup>34</sup>Speak unto the children of Israel, saying, On the fifteenth day of this seventh month is the feast of tabernacles for seven days unto Jehovah. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.23.35" data-parsed="Lev_23_35_0_0" data-passage="Lev 23.35" id="Lev.23.35"/><sup>35</sup>On the first day shall be a holy convocation: ye shall do no servile work. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.23.36" data-parsed="Lev_23_36_0_0" data-passage="Lev 23.36" id="Lev.23.36"/><sup>36</sup>Seven days ye shall offer an offering made by fire unto Jehovah: on the eighth day shall be a holy convocation unto you; and ye shall offer an offering made by fire unto Jehovah: it is a solemn assembly; ye shall do no servile work.</p>
<p id="Lev.23-p9">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.23.37" data-parsed="Lev_23_37_0_0" data-passage="Lev 23.37" id="Lev.23.37"/><sup>37</sup>These are the set feasts of Jehovah, which ye shall proclaim to be holy convocations, to offer an offering made by fire unto Jehovah, a burnt-offering, and a meal-offering, a sacrifice, and drink-offerings, each on its own day; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.23.38" data-parsed="Lev_23_38_0_0" data-passage="Lev 23.38" id="Lev.23.38"/><sup>38</sup>besides the sabbaths of Jehovah, and besides your gifts, and besides all your vows, and besides all your freewill-offerings,
which ye give unto Jehovah.</p>
<p id="Lev.23-p10">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.23.39" data-parsed="Lev_23_39_0_0" data-passage="Lev 23.39" id="Lev.23.39"/><sup>39</sup>Howbeit on the fifteenth day of the seventh month, when ye have gathered in the fruits of the land, ye shall keep the feast of Jehovah seven days: on the first day shall be a solemn rest, and on the eighth day shall be a solemn rest. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.23.40" data-parsed="Lev_23_40_0_0" data-passage="Lev 23.40" id="Lev.23.40"/><sup>40</sup>And ye shall take you on the first day the fruit of goodly trees, branches of palm-trees, and boughs of thick trees, and willows of the brook; and ye shall rejoice before Jehovah your God seven days.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.23.41" data-parsed="Lev_23_41_0_0" data-passage="Lev 23.41" id="Lev.23.41"/><sup>41</sup>And ye shall keep it a feast unto Jehovah seven days in the year: it is a statute for ever throughout your generations; ye shall keep it in the seventh month. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.23.42" data-parsed="Lev_23_42_0_0" data-passage="Lev 23.42" id="Lev.23.42"/><sup>42</sup>Ye shall dwell in booths seven days; all that are home-born in Israel shall dwell in booths; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.23.43" data-parsed="Lev_23_43_0_0" data-passage="Lev 23.43" id="Lev.23.43"/><sup>43</sup>that your generations may know that I made the children of Israel to dwell in booths, when I brought them out of the land of Egypt: I am Jehovah your God. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.23.44" data-parsed="Lev_23_44_0_0" data-passage="Lev 23.44" id="Lev.23.44"/><sup>44</sup>And Moses declared unto the children of Israel the set feasts of Jehovah.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>