<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Leviticus 26</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Leviticus 26</span></div><div data-next="Lev.27" data-prev="Lev.25" data-progress="12.49%" data-shorttitle="" id="Lev.26" title="Leviticus 26">
<h2 id="Lev.26-p0.1">26</h2>
<p id="Lev.26-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.26.1" data-parsed="Lev_26_1_0_0" data-passage="Lev 26.1" id="Lev.26.1"/><sup>1</sup>Ye shall make you no idols, neither shall ye rear you up a graven image, or a pillar, neither shall ye place any figured stone in your land, to bow down unto it: for I am Jehovah your God. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.26.2" data-parsed="Lev_26_2_0_0" data-passage="Lev 26.2" id="Lev.26.2"/><sup>2</sup>Ye shall keep my sabbaths,
and reverence my sanctuary: I am Jehovah.</p>
<p id="Lev.26-p2">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.26.3" data-parsed="Lev_26_3_0_0" data-passage="Lev 26.3" id="Lev.26.3"/><sup>3</sup>If ye walk in my statutes, and keep my commandments, and do them;

<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.26.4" data-parsed="Lev_26_4_0_0" data-passage="Lev 26.4" id="Lev.26.4"/><sup>4</sup>then I will give your rains in their season, and the land shall yield its increase, and the trees of the field shall yield their fruit. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.26.5" data-parsed="Lev_26_5_0_0" data-passage="Lev 26.5" id="Lev.26.5"/><sup>5</sup>And your threshing shall reach unto the vintage, and the vintage shall reach unto the sowing time; and ye shall eat your bread to the full, and dwell in your land safely. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.26.6" data-parsed="Lev_26_6_0_0" data-passage="Lev 26.6" id="Lev.26.6"/><sup>6</sup>And I will give peace in the land, and ye shall lie down,
and none shall make you afraid: and I will cause evil beasts to cease out of the land, neither shall the sword go through your land. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.26.7" data-parsed="Lev_26_7_0_0" data-passage="Lev 26.7" id="Lev.26.7"/><sup>7</sup>And ye shall chase your enemies, and they shall fall before you by the sword. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.26.8" data-parsed="Lev_26_8_0_0" data-passage="Lev 26.8" id="Lev.26.8"/><sup>8</sup>And five of you shall chase a hundred, and a hundred of you shall chase ten thousand; and your enemies shall fall before you by the sword. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.26.9" data-parsed="Lev_26_9_0_0" data-passage="Lev 26.9" id="Lev.26.9"/><sup>9</sup>And I will have respect unto you, and make you fruitful, and multiply you, and will establish my covenant with you. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.26.10" data-parsed="Lev_26_10_0_0" data-passage="Lev 26.10" id="Lev.26.10"/><sup>10</sup>And ye shall eat old store long kept,
and ye shall bring forth the old because of the new. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.26.11" data-parsed="Lev_26_11_0_0" data-passage="Lev 26.11" id="Lev.26.11"/><sup>11</sup>And I will set my tabernacle among you: and my soul shall not abhor you. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.26.12" data-parsed="Lev_26_12_0_0" data-passage="Lev 26.12" id="Lev.26.12"/><sup>12</sup>And I will walk among you, and will be your God, and ye shall be my people. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.26.13" data-parsed="Lev_26_13_0_0" data-passage="Lev 26.13" id="Lev.26.13"/><sup>13</sup>I am Jehovah your God, who brought you forth out of the land of Egypt, that ye should not be their bondmen; and I have broken the bars of your yoke, and made you go upright.</p>
<p id="Lev.26-p3">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.26.14" data-parsed="Lev_26_14_0_0" data-passage="Lev 26.14" id="Lev.26.14"/><sup>14</sup>But if ye will not hearken unto me, and will not do all these commandments; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.26.15" data-parsed="Lev_26_15_0_0" data-passage="Lev 26.15" id="Lev.26.15"/><sup>15</sup>and if ye shall reject my statutes, and if your soul abhor mine ordinances, so that ye will not do all my commandments, but break my covenant; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.26.16" data-parsed="Lev_26_16_0_0" data-passage="Lev 26.16" id="Lev.26.16"/><sup>16</sup>I also will do this unto you: I will appoint terror over you, even consumption and fever, that shall consume the eyes, and make the soul to pine away; and ye shall sow your seed in vain, for your enemies shall eat it. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.26.17" data-parsed="Lev_26_17_0_0" data-passage="Lev 26.17" id="Lev.26.17"/><sup>17</sup>And I will set my face against you, and ye shall be smitten before your enemies: they that hate you shall rule over you; and ye shall flee when none pursueth you. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.26.18" data-parsed="Lev_26_18_0_0" data-passage="Lev 26.18" id="Lev.26.18"/><sup>18</sup>And if ye will not yet for these things hearken unto me, then I will chastise you seven times more for your sins.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.26.19" data-parsed="Lev_26_19_0_0" data-passage="Lev 26.19" id="Lev.26.19"/><sup>19</sup>And I will break the pride of your power: and I will make your heaven as iron, and your earth as brass; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.26.20" data-parsed="Lev_26_20_0_0" data-passage="Lev 26.20" id="Lev.26.20"/><sup>20</sup>and your strength shall be spent in vain; for your land shall not yield its increase, neither shall the trees of the land yield their fruit.</p>
<p id="Lev.26-p4">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.26.21" data-parsed="Lev_26_21_0_0" data-passage="Lev 26.21" id="Lev.26.21"/><sup>21</sup>And if ye walk contrary unto me, and will not hearken unto me, I will bring seven times more plagues upon you according to your sins. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.26.22" data-parsed="Lev_26_22_0_0" data-passage="Lev 26.22" id="Lev.26.22"/><sup>22</sup>And I will send the beast of the field among you, which shall rob you of your children, and destroy your cattle, and make you few in number; and your ways shall become desolate. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.26.23" data-parsed="Lev_26_23_0_0" data-passage="Lev 26.23" id="Lev.26.23"/><sup>23</sup>And if by these things ye will not be reformed unto me, but will walk contrary unto me; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.26.24" data-parsed="Lev_26_24_0_0" data-passage="Lev 26.24" id="Lev.26.24"/><sup>24</sup>then will I also walk contrary unto you; and I will smite you, even I, seven times for your sins. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.26.25" data-parsed="Lev_26_25_0_0" data-passage="Lev 26.25" id="Lev.26.25"/><sup>25</sup>And I will bring a sword upon you, that shall execute the vengeance of the covenant; and ye shall be gathered together within your cities: and I will send the pestilence among you; and ye shall be delivered into the hand of the enemy. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.26.26" data-parsed="Lev_26_26_0_0" data-passage="Lev 26.26" id="Lev.26.26"/><sup>26</sup>When I break your staff of bread, ten women shall bake your bread in one oven, and they shall deliver your bread again by weight: and ye shall eat, and not be satisfied.</p>
<p id="Lev.26-p5">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.26.27" data-parsed="Lev_26_27_0_0" data-passage="Lev 26.27" id="Lev.26.27"/><sup>27</sup>And if ye will not for all this hearken unto me, but walk contrary unto me; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.26.28" data-parsed="Lev_26_28_0_0" data-passage="Lev 26.28" id="Lev.26.28"/><sup>28</sup>then I will walk contrary unto you in wrath; and I also will chastise you seven times for your sins. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.26.29" data-parsed="Lev_26_29_0_0" data-passage="Lev 26.29" id="Lev.26.29"/><sup>29</sup>And ye shall eat the flesh of your sons, and the flesh of your daughters shall ye eat. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.26.30" data-parsed="Lev_26_30_0_0" data-passage="Lev 26.30" id="Lev.26.30"/><sup>30</sup>And I will destroy your high places, and cut down your sun-images, and cast your dead bodies upon the bodies of your idols; and my soul shall abhor you. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.26.31" data-parsed="Lev_26_31_0_0" data-passage="Lev 26.31" id="Lev.26.31"/><sup>31</sup>And I will make your cities a waste, and will bring your sanctuaries unto desolation, and I will not smell the savor of your sweet odors. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.26.32" data-parsed="Lev_26_32_0_0" data-passage="Lev 26.32" id="Lev.26.32"/><sup>32</sup>And I will bring the land into desolation; and your enemies that dwell therein shall be astonished at it. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.26.33" data-parsed="Lev_26_33_0_0" data-passage="Lev 26.33" id="Lev.26.33"/><sup>33</sup>And you will I scatter among the nations,
and I will draw out the sword after you: and your land shall be a desolation,
and your cities shall be a waste.</p>
<p id="Lev.26-p6">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.26.34" data-parsed="Lev_26_34_0_0" data-passage="Lev 26.34" id="Lev.26.34"/><sup>34</sup>Then shall the land enjoy its sabbaths, as long as it lieth desolate,
and ye are in your enemies' land; even then shall the land rest, and enjoy its sabbaths. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.26.35" data-parsed="Lev_26_35_0_0" data-passage="Lev 26.35" id="Lev.26.35"/><sup>35</sup>As long as it lieth desolate it shall have rest, even the rest which it had not in your sabbaths, when ye dwelt upon it. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.26.36" data-parsed="Lev_26_36_0_0" data-passage="Lev 26.36" id="Lev.26.36"/><sup>36</sup>And as for them that are left of you, I will send a faintness into their heart in the lands of their enemies: and the sound of a driven leaf shall chase them;
and they shall flee, as one fleeth from the sword; and they shall fall when none pursueth. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.26.37" data-parsed="Lev_26_37_0_0" data-passage="Lev 26.37" id="Lev.26.37"/><sup>37</sup>And they shall stumble one upon another, as it were before the sword, when none pursueth: and ye shall have no power to stand before your enemies. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.26.38" data-parsed="Lev_26_38_0_0" data-passage="Lev 26.38" id="Lev.26.38"/><sup>38</sup>And ye shall perish among the nations, and the land of your enemies shall eat you up. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.26.39" data-parsed="Lev_26_39_0_0" data-passage="Lev 26.39" id="Lev.26.39"/><sup>39</sup>And they that are left of you shall pine away in their iniquity in your enemies' lands; and also in the iniquities of their fathers shall they pine away with them.</p>
<p id="Lev.26-p7">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.26.40" data-parsed="Lev_26_40_0_0" data-passage="Lev 26.40" id="Lev.26.40"/><sup>40</sup>And they shall confess their iniquity, and the iniquity of their fathers, in their trespass which they trespassed against me, and also that,
because they walked contrary unto me, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.26.41" data-parsed="Lev_26_41_0_0" data-passage="Lev 26.41" id="Lev.26.41"/><sup>41</sup>I also walked contrary unto them,
and brought them into the land of their enemies: if then their uncircumcised heart be humbled, and they then accept of the punishment of their iniquity;

<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.26.42" data-parsed="Lev_26_42_0_0" data-passage="Lev 26.42" id="Lev.26.42"/><sup>42</sup>then will I remember my covenant with Jacob; and also my covenant with Isaac, and also my covenant with Abraham will I remember; and I will remember the land. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.26.43" data-parsed="Lev_26_43_0_0" data-passage="Lev 26.43" id="Lev.26.43"/><sup>43</sup>The land also shall be left by them, and shall enjoy its sabbaths, while it lieth desolate without them: and they shall accept of the punishment of their iniquity; because, even because they rejected mine ordinances, and their soul abhorred my statutes. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.26.44" data-parsed="Lev_26_44_0_0" data-passage="Lev 26.44" id="Lev.26.44"/><sup>44</sup>And yet for all that,
when they are in the land of their enemies, I will not reject them, neither will I abhor them, to destroy them utterly, and to break my covenant with them; for I am Jehovah their God; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.26.45" data-parsed="Lev_26_45_0_0" data-passage="Lev 26.45" id="Lev.26.45"/><sup>45</sup>but I will for their sakes remember the covenant of their ancestors, whom I brought forth out of the land of Egypt in the sight of the nations, that I might be their God: I am Jehovah.</p>
<p id="Lev.26-p8">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.26.46" data-parsed="Lev_26_46_0_0" data-passage="Lev 26.46" id="Lev.26.46"/><sup>46</sup>These are the statutes and ordinances and laws, which Jehovah made between him and the children of Israel in mount Sinai by Moses.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>