<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Leviticus 21</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Leviticus 21</span></div><div data-next="Lev.22" data-prev="Lev.20" data-progress="11.90%" data-shorttitle="" id="Lev.21" title="Leviticus 21">
<h2 id="Lev.21-p0.1">21</h2>
<p id="Lev.21-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.21.1" data-parsed="Lev_21_1_0_0" data-passage="Lev 21.1" id="Lev.21.1"/><sup>1</sup>And Jehovah said unto Moses, Speak unto the priests, the sons of Aaron, and say unto them, There shall none defile himself for the dead among his people; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.21.2" data-parsed="Lev_21_2_0_0" data-passage="Lev 21.2" id="Lev.21.2"/><sup>2</sup>except for his kin, that is near unto him, for his mother,
and for his father, and for his son, and for his daughter, and for his brother, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.21.3" data-parsed="Lev_21_3_0_0" data-passage="Lev 21.3" id="Lev.21.3"/><sup>3</sup>and for his sister a virgin, that is near unto him, that hath had no husband; for her may he defile himself. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.21.4" data-parsed="Lev_21_4_0_0" data-passage="Lev 21.4" id="Lev.21.4"/><sup>4</sup>He shall not defile himself, <i>being</i> a chief man among his people, to profane himself.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.21.5" data-parsed="Lev_21_5_0_0" data-passage="Lev 21.5" id="Lev.21.5"/><sup>5</sup>They shall not make baldness upon their head, neither shall they shave off the corner of their beard, nor make any cuttings in their flesh.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.21.6" data-parsed="Lev_21_6_0_0" data-passage="Lev 21.6" id="Lev.21.6"/><sup>6</sup>They shall be holy unto their God, and not profane the name of their God; for the offerings of Jehovah made by fire, the bread of their God, they do offer: therefore they shall be holy. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.21.7" data-parsed="Lev_21_7_0_0" data-passage="Lev 21.7" id="Lev.21.7"/><sup>7</sup>They shall not take a woman that is a harlot, or profane; neither shall they take a woman put away from her husband: for he is holy unto his God. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.21.8" data-parsed="Lev_21_8_0_0" data-passage="Lev 21.8" id="Lev.21.8"/><sup>8</sup>Thou shalt sanctify him therefore;
for he offereth the bread of thy God: he shall be holy unto thee: for I Jehovah, who sanctify you, am holy. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.21.9" data-parsed="Lev_21_9_0_0" data-passage="Lev 21.9" id="Lev.21.9"/><sup>9</sup>And the daughter of any priest, if she profane herself by playing the harlot, she profaneth her father: she shall be burnt with fire.</p>
<p id="Lev.21-p2">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.21.10" data-parsed="Lev_21_10_0_0" data-passage="Lev 21.10" id="Lev.21.10"/><sup>10</sup>And he that is the high priest among his brethren, upon whose head the anointing oil is poured, and that is consecrated to put on the garments,
shall not let the hair of his head go loose, nor rend his clothes;

<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.21.11" data-parsed="Lev_21_11_0_0" data-passage="Lev 21.11" id="Lev.21.11"/><sup>11</sup>neither shall he go in to any dead body, nor defile himself for his father, or for his mother; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.21.12" data-parsed="Lev_21_12_0_0" data-passage="Lev 21.12" id="Lev.21.12"/><sup>12</sup>neither shall he go out of the sanctuary,
nor profane the sanctuary of his God; for the crown of the anointing oil of his God is upon him: I am Jehovah. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.21.13" data-parsed="Lev_21_13_0_0" data-passage="Lev 21.13" id="Lev.21.13"/><sup>13</sup>And he shall take a wife in her virginity. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.21.14" data-parsed="Lev_21_14_0_0" data-passage="Lev 21.14" id="Lev.21.14"/><sup>14</sup>A widow, or one divorced, or a profane woman, a harlot,
these shall he not take: but a virgin of his own people shall he take to wife. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.21.15" data-parsed="Lev_21_15_0_0" data-passage="Lev 21.15" id="Lev.21.15"/><sup>15</sup>And he shall not profane his seed among his people: for I am Jehovah who sanctifieth him.</p>
<p id="Lev.21-p3">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.21.16" data-parsed="Lev_21_16_0_0" data-passage="Lev 21.16" id="Lev.21.16"/><sup>16</sup>And Jehovah spake unto Moses, saying, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.21.17" data-parsed="Lev_21_17_0_0" data-passage="Lev 21.17" id="Lev.21.17"/><sup>17</sup>Speak unto Aaron, saying,
Whosoever he be of thy seed throughout their generations that hath a blemish,
let him not approach to offer the bread of his God. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.21.18" data-parsed="Lev_21_18_0_0" data-passage="Lev 21.18" id="Lev.21.18"/><sup>18</sup>For whatsoever man he be that hath a blemish, he shall not approach: a blind man, or a lame, or he that hath a flat nose, or anything superfluous, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.21.19" data-parsed="Lev_21_19_0_0" data-passage="Lev 21.19" id="Lev.21.19"/><sup>19</sup>or a man that is broken-footed, or broken-handed, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.21.20" data-parsed="Lev_21_20_0_0" data-passage="Lev 21.20" id="Lev.21.20"/><sup>20</sup>or crook-backed, or a dwarf, or that hath a blemish in his eye, or is scurvy, or scabbed, or hath his stones broken; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.21.21" data-parsed="Lev_21_21_0_0" data-passage="Lev 21.21" id="Lev.21.21"/><sup>21</sup>no man of the seed of Aaron the priest, that hath a blemish,
shall come nigh to offer the offerings of Jehovah made by fire: he hath a blemish; he shall not come nigh to offer the bread of his God. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.21.22" data-parsed="Lev_21_22_0_0" data-passage="Lev 21.22" id="Lev.21.22"/><sup>22</sup>He shall eat the bread of his God, both of the most holy, and of the holy: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.21.23" data-parsed="Lev_21_23_0_0" data-passage="Lev 21.23" id="Lev.21.23"/><sup>23</sup>only he shall not go in unto the veil, nor come nigh unto the altar, because he hath a blemish; that he profane not my sanctuaries: for I am Jehovah who sanctifieth them. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.21.24" data-parsed="Lev_21_24_0_0" data-passage="Lev 21.24" id="Lev.21.24"/><sup>24</sup>So Moses spake unto Aaron, and to his sons, and unto all the children of Israel.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>