<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Leviticus 2</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Leviticus 2</span></div><div data-next="Lev.3" data-prev="Lev.1" data-progress="9.83%" data-shorttitle="" id="Lev.2" title="Leviticus 2">
<h2 id="Lev.2-p0.1">2</h2>
<p id="Lev.2-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.2.1" data-parsed="Lev_2_1_0_0" data-passage="Lev 2.1" id="Lev.2.1"/><sup>1</sup>And when any one offereth an oblation of a meal-offering unto Jehovah, his oblation shall be of fine flour; and he shall pour oil upon it,
and put frankincense thereon: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.2.2" data-parsed="Lev_2_2_0_0" data-passage="Lev 2.2" id="Lev.2.2"/><sup>2</sup>and he shall bring it to Aaron's sons the priests; and he shall take thereout his handful of the fine flour thereof,
and of the oil thereof, with all the frankincense thereof; and the priest shall burn <i>it as</i> the memorial thereof upon the altar, an offering made by fire, of a sweet savor unto Jehovah: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.2.3" data-parsed="Lev_2_3_0_0" data-passage="Lev 2.3" id="Lev.2.3"/><sup>3</sup>and that which is left of the meal-offering shall be Aaron's and his sons': it is a thing most holy of the offerings of Jehovah made by fire.</p>
<p id="Lev.2-p2">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.2.4" data-parsed="Lev_2_4_0_0" data-passage="Lev 2.4" id="Lev.2.4"/><sup>4</sup>And when thou offerest an oblation of a meal-offering baken in the oven,
it shall be unleavened cakes of fine flour mingled with oil, or unleavened wafers anointed with oil. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.2.5" data-parsed="Lev_2_5_0_0" data-passage="Lev 2.5" id="Lev.2.5"/><sup>5</sup>And if thy oblation be a meal-offering of the baking-pan, it shall be of fine flour unleavened, mingled with oil. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.2.6" data-parsed="Lev_2_6_0_0" data-passage="Lev 2.6" id="Lev.2.6"/><sup>6</sup>Thou shalt part it in pieces, and pour oil thereon: it is a meal-offering.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.2.7" data-parsed="Lev_2_7_0_0" data-passage="Lev 2.7" id="Lev.2.7"/><sup>7</sup>And if thy oblation be a meal-offering of the frying-pan, it shall be made of fine flour with oil. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.2.8" data-parsed="Lev_2_8_0_0" data-passage="Lev 2.8" id="Lev.2.8"/><sup>8</sup>And thou shalt bring the meal-offering that is made of these things unto Jehovah: and it shall be presented unto the priest, and he shall bring it unto the altar. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.2.9" data-parsed="Lev_2_9_0_0" data-passage="Lev 2.9" id="Lev.2.9"/><sup>9</sup>And the priest shall take up from the meal-offering the memorial thereof, and shall burn it upon the altar, an offering made by fire, of a sweet savor unto Jehovah. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.2.10" data-parsed="Lev_2_10_0_0" data-passage="Lev 2.10" id="Lev.2.10"/><sup>10</sup>And that which is left of the meal-offering shall be Aaron's and his sons': it is a thing most holy of the offerings of Jehovah made by fire.</p>
<p id="Lev.2-p3">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.2.11" data-parsed="Lev_2_11_0_0" data-passage="Lev 2.11" id="Lev.2.11"/><sup>11</sup>No meal-offering, which ye shall offer unto Jehovah, shall be made with leaven; for ye shall burn no leaven, nor any honey, as an offering made by fire unto Jehovah. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.2.12" data-parsed="Lev_2_12_0_0" data-passage="Lev 2.12" id="Lev.2.12"/><sup>12</sup>As an oblation of first -<i>fruits</i> ye shall offer them unto Jehovah: but they shall not come up for a sweet savor on the altar. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.2.13" data-parsed="Lev_2_13_0_0" data-passage="Lev 2.13" id="Lev.2.13"/><sup>13</sup>And every oblation of thy meal-offering shalt thou season with salt; neither shalt thou suffer the salt of the covenant of thy God to be lacking from thy meal-offering: with all thine oblations thou shalt offer salt.</p>
<p id="Lev.2-p4">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.2.14" data-parsed="Lev_2_14_0_0" data-passage="Lev 2.14" id="Lev.2.14"/><sup>14</sup>And if thou offer a meal-offering of first-fruits unto Jehovah, thou shalt offer for the meal-offering of thy first-fruits grain in the ear parched with fire, bruised grain of the fresh ear. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.2.15" data-parsed="Lev_2_15_0_0" data-passage="Lev 2.15" id="Lev.2.15"/><sup>15</sup>And thou shalt put oil upon it, and lay frankincense thereon: it is a meal-offering. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.2.16" data-parsed="Lev_2_16_0_0" data-passage="Lev 2.16" id="Lev.2.16"/><sup>16</sup>And the priest shall burn the memorial of it, part of the bruised grain thereof,
and part of the oil thereof, with all the frankincense thereof: it is an offering made by fire unto Jehovah.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>