<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Leviticus 22</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Leviticus 22</span></div><div data-next="Lev.23" data-prev="Lev.21" data-progress="11.98%" data-shorttitle="" id="Lev.22" title="Leviticus 22">
<h2 id="Lev.22-p0.1">22</h2>
<p id="Lev.22-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.22.1" data-parsed="Lev_22_1_0_0" data-passage="Lev 22.1" id="Lev.22.1"/><sup>1</sup>And Jehovah spake unto Moses, saying, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.22.2" data-parsed="Lev_22_2_0_0" data-passage="Lev 22.2" id="Lev.22.2"/><sup>2</sup>Speak unto Aaron and to his sons, that they separate themselves from the holy things of the children of Israel, which they hallow unto me, and that they profane not my holy name:
I am Jehovah. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.22.3" data-parsed="Lev_22_3_0_0" data-passage="Lev 22.3" id="Lev.22.3"/><sup>3</sup>Say unto them, Whosoever he be of all your seed throughout your generations, that approacheth unto the holy things, which the children of Israel hallow unto Jehovah, having his uncleanness upon him, that soul shall be cut off from before me: I am Jehovah. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.22.4" data-parsed="Lev_22_4_0_0" data-passage="Lev 22.4" id="Lev.22.4"/><sup>4</sup>What man soever of the seed of Aaron is a leper, or hath an issue; he shall not eat of the holy things, until he be clean. And whoso toucheth anything that is unclean by the dead, or a man whose seed goeth from him; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.22.5" data-parsed="Lev_22_5_0_0" data-passage="Lev 22.5" id="Lev.22.5"/><sup>5</sup>or whosoever toucheth any creeping thing, whereby he may be made unclean, or a man of whom he may take uncleanness, whatsoever uncleanness he hath; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.22.6" data-parsed="Lev_22_6_0_0" data-passage="Lev 22.6" id="Lev.22.6"/><sup>6</sup>the soul that toucheth any such shall be unclean until the even, and shall not eat of the holy things,
unless he bathe his flesh in water. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.22.7" data-parsed="Lev_22_7_0_0" data-passage="Lev 22.7" id="Lev.22.7"/><sup>7</sup>And when the sun is down, he shall be clean; and afterward he shall eat of the holy things, because it is his bread. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.22.8" data-parsed="Lev_22_8_0_0" data-passage="Lev 22.8" id="Lev.22.8"/><sup>8</sup>That which dieth of itself, or is torn of beasts, he shall not eat, to defile himself therewith: I am Jehovah. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.22.9" data-parsed="Lev_22_9_0_0" data-passage="Lev 22.9" id="Lev.22.9"/><sup>9</sup>They shall therefore keep my charge, lest they bear sin for it, and die therein, if they profane it: I am Jehovah who sanctifieth them.</p>
<p id="Lev.22-p2">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.22.10" data-parsed="Lev_22_10_0_0" data-passage="Lev 22.10" id="Lev.22.10"/><sup>10</sup>There shall no stranger eat of the holy thing: a sojourner of the priest's, or a hired servant, shall not eat of the holy thing. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.22.11" data-parsed="Lev_22_11_0_0" data-passage="Lev 22.11" id="Lev.22.11"/><sup>11</sup>But if a priest buy any soul, the purchase of his money, he shall eat of it; and such as are born in his house, they shall eat of his bread. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.22.12" data-parsed="Lev_22_12_0_0" data-passage="Lev 22.12" id="Lev.22.12"/><sup>12</sup>And if a priest's daughter be married unto a stranger, she shall not eat of the heave-offering of the holy things. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.22.13" data-parsed="Lev_22_13_0_0" data-passage="Lev 22.13" id="Lev.22.13"/><sup>13</sup>But if a priest's daughter be a widow, or divorced, and have no child, and be returned unto her father's house, as in her youth, she shall eat of her father's bread: but there shall no stranger eat thereof. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.22.14" data-parsed="Lev_22_14_0_0" data-passage="Lev 22.14" id="Lev.22.14"/><sup>14</sup>And if a man eat of the holy thing unwittingly, then he shall put the fifth part thereof unto it, and shall give unto the priest the holy thing. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.22.15" data-parsed="Lev_22_15_0_0" data-passage="Lev 22.15" id="Lev.22.15"/><sup>15</sup>And they shall not profane the holy things of the children of Israel, which they offer unto Jehovah, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.22.16" data-parsed="Lev_22_16_0_0" data-passage="Lev 22.16" id="Lev.22.16"/><sup>16</sup>and <i>so</i> cause them to bear the iniquity that bringeth guilt, when they eat their holy things: for I am Jehovah who sanctifieth them.</p>
<p id="Lev.22-p3">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.22.17" data-parsed="Lev_22_17_0_0" data-passage="Lev 22.17" id="Lev.22.17"/><sup>17</sup>And Jehovah spake unto Moses, saying, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.22.18" data-parsed="Lev_22_18_0_0" data-passage="Lev 22.18" id="Lev.22.18"/><sup>18</sup>Speak unto Aaron, and to his sons, and unto all the children of Israel, and say unto them, Whosoever he be of the house of Israel, or of the sojourners in Israel, that offereth his oblation, whether it be any of their vows, or any of their freewill-offerings, which they offer unto Jehovah for a burnt-offering;

<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.22.19" data-parsed="Lev_22_19_0_0" data-passage="Lev 22.19" id="Lev.22.19"/><sup>19</sup>that ye may be accepted, <i>ye shall offer</i> a male without blemish,
of the bullocks, of the sheep, or of the goats. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.22.20" data-parsed="Lev_22_20_0_0" data-passage="Lev 22.20" id="Lev.22.20"/><sup>20</sup>But whatsoever hath a blemish, that shall ye not offer: for it shall not be acceptable for you.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.22.21" data-parsed="Lev_22_21_0_0" data-passage="Lev 22.21" id="Lev.22.21"/><sup>21</sup>And whosoever offereth a sacrifice of peace-offerings unto Jehovah to accomplish a vow, or for a freewill-offering, of the herd or of the flock, it shall be perfect to be accepted; there shall be no blemish therein.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.22.22" data-parsed="Lev_22_22_0_0" data-passage="Lev 22.22" id="Lev.22.22"/><sup>22</sup>Blind, or broken, or maimed, or having a wen, or scurvy, or scabbed, ye shall not offer these unto Jehovah, nor make an offering by fire of them upon the altar unto Jehovah. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.22.23" data-parsed="Lev_22_23_0_0" data-passage="Lev 22.23" id="Lev.22.23"/><sup>23</sup>Either a bullock or a lamb that hath anything superfluous or lacking in his parts, that mayest thou offer for a freewill-offering; but for a vow it shall not be accepted. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.22.24" data-parsed="Lev_22_24_0_0" data-passage="Lev 22.24" id="Lev.22.24"/><sup>24</sup>That which hath its stones bruised, or crushed, or broken, or cut, ye shall not offer unto Jehovah; neither shall ye do <i>thus</i> in your land. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.22.25" data-parsed="Lev_22_25_0_0" data-passage="Lev 22.25" id="Lev.22.25"/><sup>25</sup>Neither from the hand of a foreigner shall ye offer the bread of your God of any of these; because their corruption is in them, there is a blemish in them: they shall not be accepted for you.</p>
<p id="Lev.22-p4">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.22.26" data-parsed="Lev_22_26_0_0" data-passage="Lev 22.26" id="Lev.22.26"/><sup>26</sup>And Jehovah spake unto Moses, saying, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.22.27" data-parsed="Lev_22_27_0_0" data-passage="Lev 22.27" id="Lev.22.27"/><sup>27</sup>When a bullock, or a sheep,
or a goat, is brought forth, then it shall be seven days under the dam; and from the eighth day and thenceforth it shall be accepted for the oblation of an offering made by fire unto Jehovah. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.22.28" data-parsed="Lev_22_28_0_0" data-passage="Lev 22.28" id="Lev.22.28"/><sup>28</sup>And whether it be cow or ewe, ye shall not kill it and its young both in one day. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.22.29" data-parsed="Lev_22_29_0_0" data-passage="Lev 22.29" id="Lev.22.29"/><sup>29</sup>And when ye sacrifice a sacrifice of thanksgiving unto Jehovah, ye shall sacrifice it that ye may be accepted. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.22.30" data-parsed="Lev_22_30_0_0" data-passage="Lev 22.30" id="Lev.22.30"/><sup>30</sup>On the same day it shall be eaten; ye shall leave none of it until the morning: I am Jehovah. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.22.31" data-parsed="Lev_22_31_0_0" data-passage="Lev 22.31" id="Lev.22.31"/><sup>31</sup>Therefore shall ye keep my commandments, and do them: I am Jehovah. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.22.32" data-parsed="Lev_22_32_0_0" data-passage="Lev 22.32" id="Lev.22.32"/><sup>32</sup>And ye shall not profane my holy name; but I will be hallowed among the children of Israel: I am Jehovah who halloweth you, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.22.33" data-parsed="Lev_22_33_0_0" data-passage="Lev 22.33" id="Lev.22.33"/><sup>33</sup>who brought you out of the land of Egypt, to be your God: I am Jehovah.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>