<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Leviticus 3</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Leviticus 3</span></div><div data-next="Lev.4" data-prev="Lev.2" data-progress="9.89%" data-shorttitle="" id="Lev.3" title="Leviticus 3">
<h2 id="Lev.3-p0.1">3</h2>
<p id="Lev.3-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.3.1" data-parsed="Lev_3_1_0_0" data-passage="Lev 3.1" id="Lev.3.1"/><sup>1</sup>And if his oblation be a sacrifice of peace-offerings; if he offer of the herd, whether male or female, he shall offer it without blemish before Jehovah. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.3.2" data-parsed="Lev_3_2_0_0" data-passage="Lev 3.2" id="Lev.3.2"/><sup>2</sup>And he shall lay his hand upon the head of his oblation, and kill it at the door of the tent of meeting: and Aaron's sons the priests shall sprinkle the blood upon the altar round about. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.3.3" data-parsed="Lev_3_3_0_0" data-passage="Lev 3.3" id="Lev.3.3"/><sup>3</sup>And he shall offer of the sacrifice of peace-offerings an offering made by fire unto Jehovah;
the fat that covereth the inwards, and all the fat that is upon the inwards,

<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.3.4" data-parsed="Lev_3_4_0_0" data-passage="Lev 3.4" id="Lev.3.4"/><sup>4</sup>and the two kidneys, and the fat that is on them, which is by the loins,
and the caul upon the liver, with the kidneys, shall he take away. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.3.5" data-parsed="Lev_3_5_0_0" data-passage="Lev 3.5" id="Lev.3.5"/><sup>5</sup>And Aaron's sons shall burn it on the altar upon the burnt-offering, which is upon the wood that is on the fire: it is an offering made by fire, of a sweet savor unto Jehovah.</p>
<p id="Lev.3-p2">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.3.6" data-parsed="Lev_3_6_0_0" data-passage="Lev 3.6" id="Lev.3.6"/><sup>6</sup>And if his oblation for a sacrifice of peace-offerings unto Jehovah be of the flock; male or female, he shall offer it without blemish. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.3.7" data-parsed="Lev_3_7_0_0" data-passage="Lev 3.7" id="Lev.3.7"/><sup>7</sup>If he offer a lamb for his oblation, then shall he offer it before Jehovah;

<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.3.8" data-parsed="Lev_3_8_0_0" data-passage="Lev 3.8" id="Lev.3.8"/><sup>8</sup>and he shall lay his hand upon the head of his oblation, and kill it before the tent of meeting: and Aaron's sons shall sprinkle the blood thereof upon the altar round about. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.3.9" data-parsed="Lev_3_9_0_0" data-passage="Lev 3.9" id="Lev.3.9"/><sup>9</sup>And he shall offer of the sacrifice of peace-offerings an offering made by fire unto Jehovah; the fat thereof, the fat tail entire, he shall take away hard by the backbone; and the fat that covereth the inwards, and all the fat that is upon the inwards, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.3.10" data-parsed="Lev_3_10_0_0" data-passage="Lev 3.10" id="Lev.3.10"/><sup>10</sup>and the two kidneys, and the fat that is upon them, which is by the loins, and the caul upon the liver, with the kidneys, shall he take away. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.3.11" data-parsed="Lev_3_11_0_0" data-passage="Lev 3.11" id="Lev.3.11"/><sup>11</sup>And the priest shall burn it upon the altar: it is the food of the offering made by fire unto Jehovah.</p>
<p id="Lev.3-p3">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.3.12" data-parsed="Lev_3_12_0_0" data-passage="Lev 3.12" id="Lev.3.12"/><sup>12</sup>And if his oblation be a goat, then he shall offer it before Jehovah:

<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.3.13" data-parsed="Lev_3_13_0_0" data-passage="Lev 3.13" id="Lev.3.13"/><sup>13</sup>and he shall lay his hand upon the head of it, and kill it before the tent of meeting; and the sons of Aaron shall sprinkle the blood thereof upon the altar round about. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.3.14" data-parsed="Lev_3_14_0_0" data-passage="Lev 3.14" id="Lev.3.14"/><sup>14</sup>And he shall offer thereof his oblation,
<i>even</i> an offering made by fire unto Jehovah; the fat that covereth the inwards, and all the fat that is upon the inwards, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.3.15" data-parsed="Lev_3_15_0_0" data-passage="Lev 3.15" id="Lev.3.15"/><sup>15</sup>and the two kidneys,
and the fat that is upon them, which is by the loins, and the caul upon the liver, with the kidneys, shall he take away. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.3.16" data-parsed="Lev_3_16_0_0" data-passage="Lev 3.16" id="Lev.3.16"/><sup>16</sup>And the priest shall burn them upon the altar: it is the food of the offering made by fire, for a sweet savor; all the fat is Jehovah's. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.3.17" data-parsed="Lev_3_17_0_0" data-passage="Lev 3.17" id="Lev.3.17"/><sup>17</sup>It shall be a perpetual statute throughout your generations in all your dwellings, that ye shall eat neither fat nor blood.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>