<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Leviticus 9</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Leviticus 9</span></div><div data-next="Lev.10" data-prev="Lev.8" data-progress="10.53%" data-shorttitle="" id="Lev.9" title="Leviticus 9">
<h2 id="Lev.9-p0.1">9</h2>
<p id="Lev.9-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.9.1" data-parsed="Lev_9_1_0_0" data-passage="Lev 9.1" id="Lev.9.1"/><sup>1</sup>And it came to pass on the eighth day, that Moses called Aaron and his sons, and the elders of Israel; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.9.2" data-parsed="Lev_9_2_0_0" data-passage="Lev 9.2" id="Lev.9.2"/><sup>2</sup>and he said unto Aaron, Take thee a calf of the herd for a sin-offering, and a ram for a burnt-offering, without blemish, and offer them before Jehovah. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.9.3" data-parsed="Lev_9_3_0_0" data-passage="Lev 9.3" id="Lev.9.3"/><sup>3</sup>And unto the children of Israel thou shalt speak, saying, Take ye a he-goat for a sin-offering; and a calf and a lamb, both a year old, without blemish, for a burnt-offering; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.9.4" data-parsed="Lev_9_4_0_0" data-passage="Lev 9.4" id="Lev.9.4"/><sup>4</sup>and an ox and a ram for peace-offerings, to sacrifice before Jehovah; and a meal-offering mingled with oil: for to-day Jehovah appeareth unto you.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.9.5" data-parsed="Lev_9_5_0_0" data-passage="Lev 9.5" id="Lev.9.5"/><sup>5</sup>And they brought that which Moses commanded before the tent of meeting:
and all the congregation drew near and stood before Jehovah. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.9.6" data-parsed="Lev_9_6_0_0" data-passage="Lev 9.6" id="Lev.9.6"/><sup>6</sup>And Moses said, This is the thing which Jehovah commanded that ye should do: and the glory of Jehovah shall appear unto you. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.9.7" data-parsed="Lev_9_7_0_0" data-passage="Lev 9.7" id="Lev.9.7"/><sup>7</sup>And Moses said unto Aaron, Draw near unto the altar, and offer thy sin-offering, and thy burnt-offering, and make atonement for thyself, and for the people; and offer the oblation of the people, and make atonement for them; as Jehovah commanded.</p>
<p id="Lev.9-p2">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.9.8" data-parsed="Lev_9_8_0_0" data-passage="Lev 9.8" id="Lev.9.8"/><sup>8</sup>So Aaron drew near unto the altar, and slew the calf of the sin-offering, which was for himself. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.9.9" data-parsed="Lev_9_9_0_0" data-passage="Lev 9.9" id="Lev.9.9"/><sup>9</sup>And the sons of Aaron presented the blood unto him; and he dipped his finger in the blood, and put it upon the horns of the altar, and poured out the blood at the base of the altar:

<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.9.10" data-parsed="Lev_9_10_0_0" data-passage="Lev 9.10" id="Lev.9.10"/><sup>10</sup>but the fat, and the kidneys, and the caul from the liver of the sin-offering, he burnt upon the altar; as Jehovah commanded Moses. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.9.11" data-parsed="Lev_9_11_0_0" data-passage="Lev 9.11" id="Lev.9.11"/><sup>11</sup>And the flesh and the skin he burnt with fire without the camp.</p>
<p id="Lev.9-p3">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.9.12" data-parsed="Lev_9_12_0_0" data-passage="Lev 9.12" id="Lev.9.12"/><sup>12</sup>And he slew the burnt-offering; and Aaron's sons delivered unto him the blood, and he sprinkled it upon the altar round about. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.9.13" data-parsed="Lev_9_13_0_0" data-passage="Lev 9.13" id="Lev.9.13"/><sup>13</sup>And they delivered the burnt-offering unto him, piece by piece, and the head: and he burnt them upon the altar. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.9.14" data-parsed="Lev_9_14_0_0" data-passage="Lev 9.14" id="Lev.9.14"/><sup>14</sup>And he washed the inwards and the legs, and burnt them upon the burnt-offering on the altar.</p>
<p id="Lev.9-p4">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.9.15" data-parsed="Lev_9_15_0_0" data-passage="Lev 9.15" id="Lev.9.15"/><sup>15</sup>And he presented the people's oblation, and took the goat of the sin-offering which was for the people, and slew it, and offered it for sin,
as the first. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.9.16" data-parsed="Lev_9_16_0_0" data-passage="Lev 9.16" id="Lev.9.16"/><sup>16</sup>And he presented the burnt-offering, and offered it according to the ordinance. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.9.17" data-parsed="Lev_9_17_0_0" data-passage="Lev 9.17" id="Lev.9.17"/><sup>17</sup>And he presented the meal-offering, and filled his hand therefrom, and burnt it upon the altar, besides the burnt-offering of the morning.</p>
<p id="Lev.9-p5">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.9.18" data-parsed="Lev_9_18_0_0" data-passage="Lev 9.18" id="Lev.9.18"/><sup>18</sup>He slew also the ox and the ram, the sacrifice of peace-offerings,
which was for the people: and Aaron's sons delivered unto him the blood,
which he sprinkled upon the altar round about, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.9.19" data-parsed="Lev_9_19_0_0" data-passage="Lev 9.19" id="Lev.9.19"/><sup>19</sup>and the fat of the ox and of the ram, the fat tail, and that which covereth <i>the inwards</i>,
and the kidneys, and the caul of the liver: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.9.20" data-parsed="Lev_9_20_0_0" data-passage="Lev 9.20" id="Lev.9.20"/><sup>20</sup>and they put the fat upon the breasts, and he burnt the fat upon the altar: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.9.21" data-parsed="Lev_9_21_0_0" data-passage="Lev 9.21" id="Lev.9.21"/><sup>21</sup>and the breasts and the right thigh Aaron waved for a wave-offering before Jehovah; as Moses commanded.</p>
<p id="Lev.9-p6">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.9.22" data-parsed="Lev_9_22_0_0" data-passage="Lev 9.22" id="Lev.9.22"/><sup>22</sup>And Aaron lifted up his hands toward the people, and blessed them; and he came down from offering the sin-offering, and the burnt-offering, and the peace-offerings. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.9.23" data-parsed="Lev_9_23_0_0" data-passage="Lev 9.23" id="Lev.9.23"/><sup>23</sup>And Moses and Aaron went into the tent of meeting, and came out, and blessed the people: and the glory of Jehovah appeared unto all the people. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Lev.9.24" data-parsed="Lev_9_24_0_0" data-passage="Lev 9.24" id="Lev.9.24"/><sup>24</sup>And there came forth fire from before Jehovah, and consumed upon the altar the burnt-offering and the fat: and when all the people saw it, they shouted, and fell on their faces.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>