<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Luke 24</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Luke 24</span></div><div data-next="John" data-prev="Luke.23" data-progress="85.23%" data-shorttitle="" id="Luke.24" title="Luke 24">
<h2 id="Luke.24-p0.1">24</h2>
<p id="Luke.24-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.24.1" data-parsed="Luke_24_1_0_0" data-passage="Luke 24.1" id="Luke.24.1"/><sup>1</sup>But on the first day of the week, at early dawn, they came unto the tomb, bringing the spices which they had prepared. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.24.2" data-parsed="Luke_24_2_0_0" data-passage="Luke 24.2" id="Luke.24.2"/><sup>2</sup>And they found the stone rolled away from the tomb. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.24.3" data-parsed="Luke_24_3_0_0" data-passage="Luke 24.3" id="Luke.24.3"/><sup>3</sup>And they entered in, and found not the body of the Lord Jesus. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.24.4" data-parsed="Luke_24_4_0_0" data-passage="Luke 24.4" id="Luke.24.4"/><sup>4</sup>And it came to pass, while they were perplexed thereabout, behold, two men stood by them in dazzling apparel:

<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.24.5" data-parsed="Luke_24_5_0_0" data-passage="Luke 24.5" id="Luke.24.5"/><sup>5</sup>and as they were affrighted and bowed down their faces to the earth,
they said unto them, Why seek ye the living among the dead? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.24.6" data-parsed="Luke_24_6_0_0" data-passage="Luke 24.6" id="Luke.24.6"/><sup>6</sup>He is not here, but is risen: remember how he spake unto you when he was yet in Galilee, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.24.7" data-parsed="Luke_24_7_0_0" data-passage="Luke 24.7" id="Luke.24.7"/><sup>7</sup>saying that the Son of man must be delivered up into the hands of sinful men, and be crucified, and the third day rise again. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.24.8" data-parsed="Luke_24_8_0_0" data-passage="Luke 24.8" id="Luke.24.8"/><sup>8</sup>And they remembered his words, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.24.9" data-parsed="Luke_24_9_0_0" data-passage="Luke 24.9" id="Luke.24.9"/><sup>9</sup>and returned from the tomb, and told all these things to the eleven, and to all the rest. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.24.10" data-parsed="Luke_24_10_0_0" data-passage="Luke 24.10" id="Luke.24.10"/><sup>10</sup>Now they were Mary Magdalene, and Joanna, and Mary the <i>mother</i> of James: and the other women with them told these things unto the apostles. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.24.11" data-parsed="Luke_24_11_0_0" data-passage="Luke 24.11" id="Luke.24.11"/><sup>11</sup>And these words appeared in their sight as idle talk; and they disbelieved them. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.24.12" data-parsed="Luke_24_12_0_0" data-passage="Luke 24.12" id="Luke.24.12"/><sup>12</sup>But Peter arose, and ran unto the tomb; and stooping and looking in, he seeth the linen cloths by themselves; and he departed to his home, wondering at that which was come to pass. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.24.13" data-parsed="Luke_24_13_0_0" data-passage="Luke 24.13" id="Luke.24.13"/><sup>13</sup>And behold, two of them were going that very day to a village named Emmaus, which was threescore furlongs from Jerusalem.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.24.14" data-parsed="Luke_24_14_0_0" data-passage="Luke 24.14" id="Luke.24.14"/><sup>14</sup>And they communed with each other of all these things which had happened. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.24.15" data-parsed="Luke_24_15_0_0" data-passage="Luke 24.15" id="Luke.24.15"/><sup>15</sup>And it came to pass, while they communed and questioned together, that Jesus himself drew near, and went with them. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.24.16" data-parsed="Luke_24_16_0_0" data-passage="Luke 24.16" id="Luke.24.16"/><sup>16</sup>But their eyes were holden that they should not know him. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.24.17" data-parsed="Luke_24_17_0_0" data-passage="Luke 24.17" id="Luke.24.17"/><sup>17</sup>And he said unto them,
What communications are these that ye have one with another, as ye walk? And they stood still, looking sad. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.24.18" data-parsed="Luke_24_18_0_0" data-passage="Luke 24.18" id="Luke.24.18"/><sup>18</sup>And one of them, named Cleopas,
answering said unto him, Dost thou alone sojourn in Jerusalem and not know the things which are come to pass there in these days? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.24.19" data-parsed="Luke_24_19_0_0" data-passage="Luke 24.19" id="Luke.24.19"/><sup>19</sup>And he said unto them, What things? And they said unto him, The things concerning Jesus the Nazarene, who was a prophet mighty in deed and word before God and all the people: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.24.20" data-parsed="Luke_24_20_0_0" data-passage="Luke 24.20" id="Luke.24.20"/><sup>20</sup>and how the chief priests and our rulers delivered him up to be condemned to death, and crucified him. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.24.21" data-parsed="Luke_24_21_0_0" data-passage="Luke 24.21" id="Luke.24.21"/><sup>21</sup>But we hoped that it was he who should redeem Israel. Yea and besides all this, it is now the third day since these things came to pass. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.24.22" data-parsed="Luke_24_22_0_0" data-passage="Luke 24.22" id="Luke.24.22"/><sup>22</sup>Moreover certain women of our company amazed us, having been early at the tomb; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.24.23" data-parsed="Luke_24_23_0_0" data-passage="Luke 24.23" id="Luke.24.23"/><sup>23</sup>and when they found not his body,
they came, saying, that they had also seen a vision of angels, who said that he was alive. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.24.24" data-parsed="Luke_24_24_0_0" data-passage="Luke 24.24" id="Luke.24.24"/><sup>24</sup>And certain of them that were with us went to the tomb,
and found it even so as the women had said: but him they saw not. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.24.25" data-parsed="Luke_24_25_0_0" data-passage="Luke 24.25" id="Luke.24.25"/><sup>25</sup>And he said unto them, O foolish men, and slow of heart to believe in all that the prophets have spoken! 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.24.26" data-parsed="Luke_24_26_0_0" data-passage="Luke 24.26" id="Luke.24.26"/><sup>26</sup>Behooved it not the Christ to suffer these things, and to enter into his glory? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.24.27" data-parsed="Luke_24_27_0_0" data-passage="Luke 24.27" id="Luke.24.27"/><sup>27</sup>And beginning from Moses and from all the prophets, he interpreted to them in all the spans the things concerning himself. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.24.28" data-parsed="Luke_24_28_0_0" data-passage="Luke 24.28" id="Luke.24.28"/><sup>28</sup>And they drew nigh unto the village, whither they were going: and he made as though he would go further. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.24.29" data-parsed="Luke_24_29_0_0" data-passage="Luke 24.29" id="Luke.24.29"/><sup>29</sup>And they constrained him, saying, Abide with us; for it is toward evening, and the day is now far spent. And he went in to abide with them. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.24.30" data-parsed="Luke_24_30_0_0" data-passage="Luke 24.30" id="Luke.24.30"/><sup>30</sup>And it came to pass, when he had sat down with them to meat, he took the bread and blessed;
and breaking <i>it</i> he gave to them. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.24.31" data-parsed="Luke_24_31_0_0" data-passage="Luke 24.31" id="Luke.24.31"/><sup>31</sup>And their eyes were opened,
and they knew him; and he vanished out of their sight. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.24.32" data-parsed="Luke_24_32_0_0" data-passage="Luke 24.32" id="Luke.24.32"/><sup>32</sup>And they said one to another, Was not our heart burning within us, while he spake to us in the way, while he opened to us the spans? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.24.33" data-parsed="Luke_24_33_0_0" data-passage="Luke 24.33" id="Luke.24.33"/><sup>33</sup>And they rose up that very hour, and returned to Jerusalem, and found the eleven gathered together,
and them that were with them, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.24.34" data-parsed="Luke_24_34_0_0" data-passage="Luke 24.34" id="Luke.24.34"/><sup>34</sup>saying, The Lord is risen indeed, and hath appeared to Simon. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.24.35" data-parsed="Luke_24_35_0_0" data-passage="Luke 24.35" id="Luke.24.35"/><sup>35</sup>And they rehearsed the things <i>that happened</i> in the way, and how he was known of them in the breaking of the bread. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.24.36" data-parsed="Luke_24_36_0_0" data-passage="Luke 24.36" id="Luke.24.36"/><sup>36</sup>And as they spake these things, he himself stood in the midst of them, and saith unto them, Peace <i>be</i> unto you. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.24.37" data-parsed="Luke_24_37_0_0" data-passage="Luke 24.37" id="Luke.24.37"/><sup>37</sup>But they were terrified and affrighted, and supposed that they beheld a spirit. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.24.38" data-parsed="Luke_24_38_0_0" data-passage="Luke 24.38" id="Luke.24.38"/><sup>38</sup>And he said unto them, Why are ye troubled? and wherefore do questionings arise in your heart? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.24.39" data-parsed="Luke_24_39_0_0" data-passage="Luke 24.39" id="Luke.24.39"/><sup>39</sup>See my hands and my feet, that it is I myself: handle me, and see; for a spirit hath not flesh and bones, as ye behold me having.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.24.40" data-parsed="Luke_24_40_0_0" data-passage="Luke 24.40" id="Luke.24.40"/><sup>40</sup>And when he had said this, he showed them his hands and his feet.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.24.41" data-parsed="Luke_24_41_0_0" data-passage="Luke 24.41" id="Luke.24.41"/><sup>41</sup>And while they still disbelieved for joy, and wondered, he said unto them, Have ye here anything to eat? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.24.42" data-parsed="Luke_24_42_0_0" data-passage="Luke 24.42" id="Luke.24.42"/><sup>42</sup>And they gave him a piece of a broiled fish. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.24.43" data-parsed="Luke_24_43_0_0" data-passage="Luke 24.43" id="Luke.24.43"/><sup>43</sup>And he took it, and ate before them. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.24.44" data-parsed="Luke_24_44_0_0" data-passage="Luke 24.44" id="Luke.24.44"/><sup>44</sup>And he said unto them, These are my words which I spake unto you, while I was yet with you, that all things must needs be fulfilled, which are written in the law of Moses, and the prophets, and the psalms, concerning me. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.24.45" data-parsed="Luke_24_45_0_0" data-passage="Luke 24.45" id="Luke.24.45"/><sup>45</sup>Then opened he their mind, that they might understand the spans; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.24.46" data-parsed="Luke_24_46_0_0" data-passage="Luke 24.46" id="Luke.24.46"/><sup>46</sup>and he said unto them, Thus it is written, that the Christ should suffer, and rise again from the dead the third day; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.24.47" data-parsed="Luke_24_47_0_0" data-passage="Luke 24.47" id="Luke.24.47"/><sup>47</sup>and that repentance and remission of sins should be preached in his name unto all the nations, beginning from Jerusalem. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.24.48" data-parsed="Luke_24_48_0_0" data-passage="Luke 24.48" id="Luke.24.48"/><sup>48</sup>Ye are witnesses of these things. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.24.49" data-parsed="Luke_24_49_0_0" data-passage="Luke 24.49" id="Luke.24.49"/><sup>49</sup>And behold, I send forth the promise of my Father upon you: but tarry ye in the city, until ye be clothed with power from on high. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.24.50" data-parsed="Luke_24_50_0_0" data-passage="Luke 24.50" id="Luke.24.50"/><sup>50</sup>And he led them out until <i>they were</i> over against Bethany: and he lifted up his hands, and blessed them.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.24.51" data-parsed="Luke_24_51_0_0" data-passage="Luke 24.51" id="Luke.24.51"/><sup>51</sup>And it came to pass, while he blessed them, he parted from them, and was carried up into heaven. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.24.52" data-parsed="Luke_24_52_0_0" data-passage="Luke 24.52" id="Luke.24.52"/><sup>52</sup>And they worshipped him, and returned to Jerusalem with great joy: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.24.53" data-parsed="Luke_24_53_0_0" data-passage="Luke 24.53" id="Luke.24.53"/><sup>53</sup>and were continually in the temple, blessing God.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>