<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Luke 12</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Luke 12</span></div><div data-next="Luke.13" data-prev="Luke.11" data-progress="83.80%" data-shorttitle="" id="Luke.12" title="Luke 12">
<h2 id="Luke.12-p0.1">12</h2>
<p id="Luke.12-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.12.1" data-parsed="Luke_12_1_0_0" data-passage="Luke 12.1" id="Luke.12.1"/><sup>1</sup>In the mean time, when the many thousands of the multitude were gathered together, insomuch that they trod one upon another, he began to say unto his disciples first of all, Beware ye of the leaven of the Pharisees,
which is hypocrisy. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.12.2" data-parsed="Luke_12_2_0_0" data-passage="Luke 12.2" id="Luke.12.2"/><sup>2</sup>But there is nothing covered up, that shall not be revealed; and hid, that shall not be known. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.12.3" data-parsed="Luke_12_3_0_0" data-passage="Luke 12.3" id="Luke.12.3"/><sup>3</sup>Wherefore whatsoever ye have said in the darkness shall be heard in the light; and what ye have spoken in the ear in the inner chambers shall be proclaimed upon the housetops.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.12.4" data-parsed="Luke_12_4_0_0" data-passage="Luke 12.4" id="Luke.12.4"/><sup>4</sup>And I say unto you my friends, Be not afraid of them that kill the body,
and after that have no more that they can do. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.12.5" data-parsed="Luke_12_5_0_0" data-passage="Luke 12.5" id="Luke.12.5"/><sup>5</sup>But I will warn you whom ye shall fear: Fear him, who after he hath killed hath power to cast into hell; yea, I say unto you, Fear him. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.12.6" data-parsed="Luke_12_6_0_0" data-passage="Luke 12.6" id="Luke.12.6"/><sup>6</sup>Are not five sparrows sold for two pence? and not one of them is forgotten in the sight of God. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.12.7" data-parsed="Luke_12_7_0_0" data-passage="Luke 12.7" id="Luke.12.7"/><sup>7</sup>But the very hairs of your head are all numbered. Fear not: ye are of more value than many sparrows. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.12.8" data-parsed="Luke_12_8_0_0" data-passage="Luke 12.8" id="Luke.12.8"/><sup>8</sup>And I say unto you, Every one who shall confess me before men, him shall the Son of man also confess before the angels of God: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.12.9" data-parsed="Luke_12_9_0_0" data-passage="Luke 12.9" id="Luke.12.9"/><sup>9</sup>but he that denieth me in the presence of men shall be denied in the presence of the angels of God. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.12.10" data-parsed="Luke_12_10_0_0" data-passage="Luke 12.10" id="Luke.12.10"/><sup>10</sup>And every one who shall speak a word against the Son of man, it shall be forgiven him: but unto him that blasphemeth against the Holy Spirit it shall not be forgiven. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.12.11" data-parsed="Luke_12_11_0_0" data-passage="Luke 12.11" id="Luke.12.11"/><sup>11</sup>And when they bring you before the synagogues, and the rulers, and the authorities, be not anxious how or what ye shall answer, or what ye shall say: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.12.12" data-parsed="Luke_12_12_0_0" data-passage="Luke 12.12" id="Luke.12.12"/><sup>12</sup>for the Holy Spirit shall teach you in that very hour what ye ought to say. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.12.13" data-parsed="Luke_12_13_0_0" data-passage="Luke 12.13" id="Luke.12.13"/><sup>13</sup>And one out of the multitude said unto him, Teacher, bid my brother divide the inheritance with me. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.12.14" data-parsed="Luke_12_14_0_0" data-passage="Luke 12.14" id="Luke.12.14"/><sup>14</sup>But he said unto him, Man, who made me a judge or a divider over you? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.12.15" data-parsed="Luke_12_15_0_0" data-passage="Luke 12.15" id="Luke.12.15"/><sup>15</sup>And he said unto them, Take heed, and keep yourselves from all covetousness: for a man's life consisteth not in the abundance of the things which he possesseth. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.12.16" data-parsed="Luke_12_16_0_0" data-passage="Luke 12.16" id="Luke.12.16"/><sup>16</sup>And he spake a parable unto them, saying, The ground of a certain rich man brought forth plentifully: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.12.17" data-parsed="Luke_12_17_0_0" data-passage="Luke 12.17" id="Luke.12.17"/><sup>17</sup>and he reasoned within himself, saying, What shall I do, because I have not where to bestow my fruits? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.12.18" data-parsed="Luke_12_18_0_0" data-passage="Luke 12.18" id="Luke.12.18"/><sup>18</sup>And he said, This will I do: I will pull down my barns, and build greater; and there will I bestow all my grain and my goods. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.12.19" data-parsed="Luke_12_19_0_0" data-passage="Luke 12.19" id="Luke.12.19"/><sup>19</sup>And I will say to my soul, Soul, thou hast much goods laid up for many years; take thine ease, eat, drink, be merry. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.12.20" data-parsed="Luke_12_20_0_0" data-passage="Luke 12.20" id="Luke.12.20"/><sup>20</sup>But God said unto him, Thou foolish one, this night is thy soul required of thee; and the things which thou hast prepared, whose shall they be? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.12.21" data-parsed="Luke_12_21_0_0" data-passage="Luke 12.21" id="Luke.12.21"/><sup>21</sup>So is he that layeth up treasure for himself, and is not rich toward God. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.12.22" data-parsed="Luke_12_22_0_0" data-passage="Luke 12.22" id="Luke.12.22"/><sup>22</sup>And he said unto his disciples,
Therefore I say unto you, Be not anxious for <i>your</i> life, what ye shall eat; nor yet for your body, what ye shall put on. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.12.23" data-parsed="Luke_12_23_0_0" data-passage="Luke 12.23" id="Luke.12.23"/><sup>23</sup>For the life is more than the food, and the body than the raiment. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.12.24" data-parsed="Luke_12_24_0_0" data-passage="Luke 12.24" id="Luke.12.24"/><sup>24</sup>Consider the ravens, that they sow not, neither reap; which have no store-chamber nor barn; and God feedeth them: of how much more value are ye than the birds! 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.12.25" data-parsed="Luke_12_25_0_0" data-passage="Luke 12.25" id="Luke.12.25"/><sup>25</sup>And which of you by being anxious can add a cubit unto the measure of his life?

<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.12.26" data-parsed="Luke_12_26_0_0" data-passage="Luke 12.26" id="Luke.12.26"/><sup>26</sup>If then ye are not able to do even that which is least, why are ye anxious concerning the rest? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.12.27" data-parsed="Luke_12_27_0_0" data-passage="Luke 12.27" id="Luke.12.27"/><sup>27</sup>Consider the lilies, how they grow: they toil not, neither do they spin; yet I say unto you, Even Solomon in all his glory was not arrayed like one of these. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.12.28" data-parsed="Luke_12_28_0_0" data-passage="Luke 12.28" id="Luke.12.28"/><sup>28</sup>But if God doth so clothe the grass in the field, which to-day is, and to-morrow is cast into the oven; how much more <i>shall he clothe</i> you, O ye of little faith? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.12.29" data-parsed="Luke_12_29_0_0" data-passage="Luke 12.29" id="Luke.12.29"/><sup>29</sup>And seek not ye what ye shall eat, and what ye shall drink, neither be ye of doubtful mind. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.12.30" data-parsed="Luke_12_30_0_0" data-passage="Luke 12.30" id="Luke.12.30"/><sup>30</sup>For all these things do the nations of the world seek after: but your Father knoweth that ye have need of these things. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.12.31" data-parsed="Luke_12_31_0_0" data-passage="Luke 12.31" id="Luke.12.31"/><sup>31</sup>Yet seek ye his kingdom, and these things shall be added unto you. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.12.32" data-parsed="Luke_12_32_0_0" data-passage="Luke 12.32" id="Luke.12.32"/><sup>32</sup>Fear not, little flock; for it is your Father's good pleasure to give you the kingdom.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.12.33" data-parsed="Luke_12_33_0_0" data-passage="Luke 12.33" id="Luke.12.33"/><sup>33</sup>Sell that which ye have, and give alms; make for yourselves purses which wax not old, a treasure in the heavens that faileth not, where no thief draweth near, neither moth destroyeth. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.12.34" data-parsed="Luke_12_34_0_0" data-passage="Luke 12.34" id="Luke.12.34"/><sup>34</sup>For where your treasure is,
there will your heart be also. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.12.35" data-parsed="Luke_12_35_0_0" data-passage="Luke 12.35" id="Luke.12.35"/><sup>35</sup>Let your loins be girded about, and your lamps burning; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.12.36" data-parsed="Luke_12_36_0_0" data-passage="Luke 12.36" id="Luke.12.36"/><sup>36</sup>and be ye yourselves like unto men looking for their lord, when he shall return from the marriage feast; that, when he cometh and knocketh, they may straightway open unto him. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.12.37" data-parsed="Luke_12_37_0_0" data-passage="Luke 12.37" id="Luke.12.37"/><sup>37</sup>Blessed are those servants, whom the lord when he cometh shall find watching: verily I say unto you, that he shall gird himself, and make them sit down to meat, and shall come and serve them. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.12.38" data-parsed="Luke_12_38_0_0" data-passage="Luke 12.38" id="Luke.12.38"/><sup>38</sup>And if he shall come in the second watch, and if in the third, and find <i>them</i> so blessed are those <i>servants</i>.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.12.39" data-parsed="Luke_12_39_0_0" data-passage="Luke 12.39" id="Luke.12.39"/><sup>39</sup>But know this, that if the master of the house had known in what hour the thief was coming, he would have watched, and not have left his house to be broken through. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.12.40" data-parsed="Luke_12_40_0_0" data-passage="Luke 12.40" id="Luke.12.40"/><sup>40</sup>Be ye also ready: for in an hour that ye think not the Son of man cometh. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.12.41" data-parsed="Luke_12_41_0_0" data-passage="Luke 12.41" id="Luke.12.41"/><sup>41</sup>And Peter said, Lord, speakest thou this parable unto us, or even unto all? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.12.42" data-parsed="Luke_12_42_0_0" data-passage="Luke 12.42" id="Luke.12.42"/><sup>42</sup>And the Lord said, Who then is the faithful and wise steward, whom his lord shall set over his household, to give them their portion of food in due season? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.12.43" data-parsed="Luke_12_43_0_0" data-passage="Luke 12.43" id="Luke.12.43"/><sup>43</sup>Blessed is that servant, whom his lord when he cometh shall find so doing. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.12.44" data-parsed="Luke_12_44_0_0" data-passage="Luke 12.44" id="Luke.12.44"/><sup>44</sup>Of a truth I say unto you,
that he will set him over all that he hath. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.12.45" data-parsed="Luke_12_45_0_0" data-passage="Luke 12.45" id="Luke.12.45"/><sup>45</sup>But if that servant shall say in his heart, My lord delayeth his coming; and shall begin to beat the menservants and the maidservants, and to eat and drink, and to be drunken;

<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.12.46" data-parsed="Luke_12_46_0_0" data-passage="Luke 12.46" id="Luke.12.46"/><sup>46</sup>the lord of that servant shall come in a day when he expecteth not, and in an hour when he knoweth not, and shall cut him asunder, and appoint his portion with the unfaithful. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.12.47" data-parsed="Luke_12_47_0_0" data-passage="Luke 12.47" id="Luke.12.47"/><sup>47</sup>And that servant, who knew his lord's will, and made not ready, nor did according to his will, shall be beaten with many <i>stripes</i>; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.12.48" data-parsed="Luke_12_48_0_0" data-passage="Luke 12.48" id="Luke.12.48"/><sup>48</sup>but he that knew not, and did things worthy of stripes, shall be beaten with few <i>stripes</i>. And to whomsoever much is given, of him shall much be required: and to whom they commit much, of him will they ask the more. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.12.49" data-parsed="Luke_12_49_0_0" data-passage="Luke 12.49" id="Luke.12.49"/><sup>49</sup>I came to cast fire upon the earth; and what do I desire, if it is already kindled? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.12.50" data-parsed="Luke_12_50_0_0" data-passage="Luke 12.50" id="Luke.12.50"/><sup>50</sup>But I have a baptism to be baptized with; and how am I straitened till it be accomplished! 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.12.51" data-parsed="Luke_12_51_0_0" data-passage="Luke 12.51" id="Luke.12.51"/><sup>51</sup>Think ye that I am come to give peace in the earth? I tell you, Nay; but rather division:

<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.12.52" data-parsed="Luke_12_52_0_0" data-passage="Luke 12.52" id="Luke.12.52"/><sup>52</sup>for there shall be from henceforth five in one house divided, three against two, and two against three. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.12.53" data-parsed="Luke_12_53_0_0" data-passage="Luke 12.53" id="Luke.12.53"/><sup>53</sup>They shall be divided, father against son, and son against father; mother against daughter, and daughter against her mother; mother in law against her daughter in law, and daughter in law against her mother in law. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.12.54" data-parsed="Luke_12_54_0_0" data-passage="Luke 12.54" id="Luke.12.54"/><sup>54</sup>And he said to the multitudes also,
When ye see a cloud rising in the west, straightway ye say, There cometh a shower; and so it cometh to pass. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.12.55" data-parsed="Luke_12_55_0_0" data-passage="Luke 12.55" id="Luke.12.55"/><sup>55</sup>And when <i>ye see</i> a south wind blowing, ye say, There will be a scorching heat; and it cometh to pass.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.12.56" data-parsed="Luke_12_56_0_0" data-passage="Luke 12.56" id="Luke.12.56"/><sup>56</sup>Ye hypocrites, ye know how to interpret the face of the earth and the heaven; but how is it that ye know not how to interpret this time? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.12.57" data-parsed="Luke_12_57_0_0" data-passage="Luke 12.57" id="Luke.12.57"/><sup>57</sup>And why even of yourselves judge ye not what is right? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.12.58" data-parsed="Luke_12_58_0_0" data-passage="Luke 12.58" id="Luke.12.58"/><sup>58</sup>For as thou art going with thine adversary before the magistrate, on the way give diligence to be quit of him; lest haply he drag thee unto the judge, and the judge shall deliver thee to the officer, and the officer shall cast thee into prison. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.12.59" data-parsed="Luke_12_59_0_0" data-passage="Luke 12.59" id="Luke.12.59"/><sup>59</sup>I say unto thee, Thou shalt by no means come out thence, till thou have paid the very last mite.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>