<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Luke 16</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Luke 16</span></div><div data-next="Luke.17" data-prev="Luke.15" data-progress="84.27%" data-shorttitle="" id="Luke.16" title="Luke 16">
<h2 id="Luke.16-p0.1">16</h2>
<p id="Luke.16-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.16.1" data-parsed="Luke_16_1_0_0" data-passage="Luke 16.1" id="Luke.16.1"/><sup>1</sup>And he said also unto the disciples, There was a certain rich man,
who had a steward; and the same was accused unto him that he was wasting his goods. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.16.2" data-parsed="Luke_16_2_0_0" data-passage="Luke 16.2" id="Luke.16.2"/><sup>2</sup>And he called him, and said unto him, What is this that I hear of thee? render the account of thy stewardship; for thou canst be no longer steward. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.16.3" data-parsed="Luke_16_3_0_0" data-passage="Luke 16.3" id="Luke.16.3"/><sup>3</sup>And the steward said within himself, What shall I do, seeing that my lord taketh away the stewardship from me? I have not strength to dig;
to beg I am ashamed. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.16.4" data-parsed="Luke_16_4_0_0" data-passage="Luke 16.4" id="Luke.16.4"/><sup>4</sup>I am resolved what to do, that, when I am put out of the stewardship, they may receive me into their houses. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.16.5" data-parsed="Luke_16_5_0_0" data-passage="Luke 16.5" id="Luke.16.5"/><sup>5</sup>And calling to him each one of his lord's debtors, he said to the first, How much owest thou unto my lord? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.16.6" data-parsed="Luke_16_6_0_0" data-passage="Luke 16.6" id="Luke.16.6"/><sup>6</sup>And he said, A hundred measures of oil. And he said unto him, Take thy bond, and sit down quickly and write fifty. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.16.7" data-parsed="Luke_16_7_0_0" data-passage="Luke 16.7" id="Luke.16.7"/><sup>7</sup>Then said he to another, And how much owest thou? And he said, A hundred measures of wheat. He saith unto him, Take thy bond, and write fourscore. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.16.8" data-parsed="Luke_16_8_0_0" data-passage="Luke 16.8" id="Luke.16.8"/><sup>8</sup>And his lord commended the unrighteous steward because he had done wisely: for the sons of this world are for their own generation wiser than the sons of the light. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.16.9" data-parsed="Luke_16_9_0_0" data-passage="Luke 16.9" id="Luke.16.9"/><sup>9</sup>And I say unto you, Make to yourselves friends by means of the mammon of unrighteousness; that, when it shall fail, they may receive you into the eternal tabernacles. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.16.10" data-parsed="Luke_16_10_0_0" data-passage="Luke 16.10" id="Luke.16.10"/><sup>10</sup>He that is faithful in a very little is faithful also in much: and he that is unrighteous in a very little is unrighteous also in much. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.16.11" data-parsed="Luke_16_11_0_0" data-passage="Luke 16.11" id="Luke.16.11"/><sup>11</sup>If therefore ye have not been faithful in the unrighteous mammon, who will commit to your trust the true <i>riches</i>?

<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.16.12" data-parsed="Luke_16_12_0_0" data-passage="Luke 16.12" id="Luke.16.12"/><sup>12</sup>And if ye have not been faithful in that which is another's, who will give you that which is your own? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.16.13" data-parsed="Luke_16_13_0_0" data-passage="Luke 16.13" id="Luke.16.13"/><sup>13</sup>No servant can serve two masters: for either he will hate the one, and love the other; or else he will hold to one,
and despise the other. Ye cannot serve God and mammon. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.16.14" data-parsed="Luke_16_14_0_0" data-passage="Luke 16.14" id="Luke.16.14"/><sup>14</sup>And the Pharisees, who were lovers of money, heard all these things; and they scoffed at him. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.16.15" data-parsed="Luke_16_15_0_0" data-passage="Luke 16.15" id="Luke.16.15"/><sup>15</sup>And he said unto them, Ye are they that justify yourselves in the sight of men; but God knoweth your hearts: for that which is exalted among men is an abomination in the sight of God. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.16.16" data-parsed="Luke_16_16_0_0" data-passage="Luke 16.16" id="Luke.16.16"/><sup>16</sup>The law and the prophets <i>were</i> until John: from that time the gospel of the kingdom of God is preached, and every man entereth violently into it. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.16.17" data-parsed="Luke_16_17_0_0" data-passage="Luke 16.17" id="Luke.16.17"/><sup>17</sup>But it is easier for heaven and earth to pass away, than for one tittle of the law to fall. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.16.18" data-parsed="Luke_16_18_0_0" data-passage="Luke 16.18" id="Luke.16.18"/><sup>18</sup>Every one that putteth away his wife, and marrieth another,
committeth adultery: and he that marrieth one that is put away from a husband committeth adultery. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.16.19" data-parsed="Luke_16_19_0_0" data-passage="Luke 16.19" id="Luke.16.19"/><sup>19</sup>Now there was a certain rich man, and he was clothed in purple and fine linen, faring sumptuously every day: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.16.20" data-parsed="Luke_16_20_0_0" data-passage="Luke 16.20" id="Luke.16.20"/><sup>20</sup>and a certain beggar named Lazarus was laid at his gate, full of sores, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.16.21" data-parsed="Luke_16_21_0_0" data-passage="Luke 16.21" id="Luke.16.21"/><sup>21</sup>and desiring to be fed with the <i>crumbs</i> that fell from the rich man's table; yea, even the dogs come and licked his sores. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.16.22" data-parsed="Luke_16_22_0_0" data-passage="Luke 16.22" id="Luke.16.22"/><sup>22</sup>And it came to pass, that the beggar died, and that he was carried away by the angels into Abraham's bosom: and the rich man also died, and was buried. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.16.23" data-parsed="Luke_16_23_0_0" data-passage="Luke 16.23" id="Luke.16.23"/><sup>23</sup>And in Hades he lifted up his eyes, being in torments, and seeth Abraham afar off,
and Lazarus in his bosom. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.16.24" data-parsed="Luke_16_24_0_0" data-passage="Luke 16.24" id="Luke.16.24"/><sup>24</sup>And he cried and said, Father Abraham, have mercy on me, and send Lazarus, that he may dip the tip of his finger in water, and cool my tongue; for I am in anguish in this flame. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.16.25" data-parsed="Luke_16_25_0_0" data-passage="Luke 16.25" id="Luke.16.25"/><sup>25</sup>But Abraham said, Son, remember that thou in thy lifetime receivedst thy good things, and Lazarus in like manner evil things: but now here he is comforted and thou art in anguish. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.16.26" data-parsed="Luke_16_26_0_0" data-passage="Luke 16.26" id="Luke.16.26"/><sup>26</sup>And besides all this, between us and you there is a great gulf fixed, that they that would pass from hence to you may not be able, and that none may cross over from thence to us. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.16.27" data-parsed="Luke_16_27_0_0" data-passage="Luke 16.27" id="Luke.16.27"/><sup>27</sup>And he said, I pray thee therefore, father, that thou wouldest send him to my father's house; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.16.28" data-parsed="Luke_16_28_0_0" data-passage="Luke 16.28" id="Luke.16.28"/><sup>28</sup>for I have five brethren; that he may testify unto them, lest they also come into this place of torment. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.16.29" data-parsed="Luke_16_29_0_0" data-passage="Luke 16.29" id="Luke.16.29"/><sup>29</sup>But Abraham saith, They have Moses and the prophets; let them hear them. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.16.30" data-parsed="Luke_16_30_0_0" data-passage="Luke 16.30" id="Luke.16.30"/><sup>30</sup>And he said, Nay, father Abraham: but if one go to them from the dead, they will repent. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.16.31" data-parsed="Luke_16_31_0_0" data-passage="Luke 16.31" id="Luke.16.31"/><sup>31</sup>And he said unto him, If they hear not Moses and the prophets, neither will they be persuaded, if one rise from the dead.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>