<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Luke 11</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Luke 11</span></div><div data-next="Luke.12" data-prev="Luke.10" data-progress="83.64%" data-shorttitle="" id="Luke.11" title="Luke 11">
<h2 id="Luke.11-p0.1">11</h2>
<p id="Luke.11-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.11.1" data-parsed="Luke_11_1_0_0" data-passage="Luke 11.1" id="Luke.11.1"/><sup>1</sup>And it came to pass, as he was praying in a certain place, that when he ceased, one of his disciples said unto him, Lord, teach us to pray,
even as John also taught his disciples. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.11.2" data-parsed="Luke_11_2_0_0" data-passage="Luke 11.2" id="Luke.11.2"/><sup>2</sup>And he said unto them, When ye pray, say, Father, Hallowed be thy name. Thy kingdom come. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.11.3" data-parsed="Luke_11_3_0_0" data-passage="Luke 11.3" id="Luke.11.3"/><sup>3</sup>Give us day by day our daily bread. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.11.4" data-parsed="Luke_11_4_0_0" data-passage="Luke 11.4" id="Luke.11.4"/><sup>4</sup>And forgive us our sins; for we ourselves also forgive every one that is indebted to us. And bring us not into temptation.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.11.5" data-parsed="Luke_11_5_0_0" data-passage="Luke 11.5" id="Luke.11.5"/><sup>5</sup>And he said unto them, Which of you shall have a friend, and shall go unto him at midnight, and say to him, Friend, lend me three loaves; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.11.6" data-parsed="Luke_11_6_0_0" data-passage="Luke 11.6" id="Luke.11.6"/><sup>6</sup>for a friend of mine is come to me from a journey, and I have nothing to set before him; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.11.7" data-parsed="Luke_11_7_0_0" data-passage="Luke 11.7" id="Luke.11.7"/><sup>7</sup>and he from within shall answer and say, Trouble me not: the door is now shut, and my children are with me in bed; I cannot rise and give thee? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.11.8" data-parsed="Luke_11_8_0_0" data-passage="Luke 11.8" id="Luke.11.8"/><sup>8</sup>I say unto you, Though he will not rise and give him because he is his friend, yet because of his importunity he will arise and give him as many as he needeth. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.11.9" data-parsed="Luke_11_9_0_0" data-passage="Luke 11.9" id="Luke.11.9"/><sup>9</sup>And I say unto you, Ask, and it shall be given you; seek,
and ye shall find; knock, and it shall be opened unto you. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.11.10" data-parsed="Luke_11_10_0_0" data-passage="Luke 11.10" id="Luke.11.10"/><sup>10</sup>For every one that asketh receiveth; and he that seeketh findeth; and to him that knocketh it shall be opened. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.11.11" data-parsed="Luke_11_11_0_0" data-passage="Luke 11.11" id="Luke.11.11"/><sup>11</sup>And of which of you that is a father shall his son ask a loaf, and he give him a stone? or a fish, and he for a fish give him a serpent? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.11.12" data-parsed="Luke_11_12_0_0" data-passage="Luke 11.12" id="Luke.11.12"/><sup>12</sup>Or <i>if</i> he shall ask an egg, will he give him a scorpion? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.11.13" data-parsed="Luke_11_13_0_0" data-passage="Luke 11.13" id="Luke.11.13"/><sup>13</sup>If ye then, being evil, know how to give good gifts unto your children, how much more shall <i>your</i> heavenly Father give the Holy Spirit to them that ask him? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.11.14" data-parsed="Luke_11_14_0_0" data-passage="Luke 11.14" id="Luke.11.14"/><sup>14</sup>And he was casting out a demon <i>that was</i> dumb. And it came to pass, when the demon was gone out, the dumb man spake; and the multitudes marvelled. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.11.15" data-parsed="Luke_11_15_0_0" data-passage="Luke 11.15" id="Luke.11.15"/><sup>15</sup>But some of them said, By Beelzebub the prince of the demons casteth he out demons. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.11.16" data-parsed="Luke_11_16_0_0" data-passage="Luke 11.16" id="Luke.11.16"/><sup>16</sup>And others,
trying <i>him</i>, sought of him a sign from heaven. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.11.17" data-parsed="Luke_11_17_0_0" data-passage="Luke 11.17" id="Luke.11.17"/><sup>17</sup>But he, knowing their thoughts, said unto them, Every kingdom divided against itself is brought to desolation; and a house <i>divided</i> against a house falleth.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.11.18" data-parsed="Luke_11_18_0_0" data-passage="Luke 11.18" id="Luke.11.18"/><sup>18</sup>And if Satan also is divided against himself, how shall his kingdom stand? because ye say that I cast out demons by Beelzebub. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.11.19" data-parsed="Luke_11_19_0_0" data-passage="Luke 11.19" id="Luke.11.19"/><sup>19</sup>And if I by Beelzebub cast out demons, by whom do your sons cast them out? therefore shall they be your judges. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.11.20" data-parsed="Luke_11_20_0_0" data-passage="Luke 11.20" id="Luke.11.20"/><sup>20</sup>But if I by the finger of God cast out demons, then is the kingdom of God come upon you. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.11.21" data-parsed="Luke_11_21_0_0" data-passage="Luke 11.21" id="Luke.11.21"/><sup>21</sup>When the strong <i>man</i> fully armed guardeth his own court, his goods are in peace:

<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.11.22" data-parsed="Luke_11_22_0_0" data-passage="Luke 11.22" id="Luke.11.22"/><sup>22</sup>but when a stronger than he shall come upon him, and overcome him, he taketh from him his whole armor wherein he trusted, and divideth his spoils.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.11.23" data-parsed="Luke_11_23_0_0" data-passage="Luke 11.23" id="Luke.11.23"/><sup>23</sup>He that is not with me is against me; and he that gathereth not with me scattereth. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.11.24" data-parsed="Luke_11_24_0_0" data-passage="Luke 11.24" id="Luke.11.24"/><sup>24</sup>The unclean spirit when he is gone out of the man, passeth through waterless places, seeking rest, and finding none, he saith, I will turn back unto my house whence I came out. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.11.25" data-parsed="Luke_11_25_0_0" data-passage="Luke 11.25" id="Luke.11.25"/><sup>25</sup>And when he is come, he findeth it swept and garnished. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.11.26" data-parsed="Luke_11_26_0_0" data-passage="Luke 11.26" id="Luke.11.26"/><sup>26</sup>Then goeth he, and taketh <i>to him</i> seven other spirits more evil than himself; and they enter in and dwell there: and the last state of that man becometh worse than the first.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.11.27" data-parsed="Luke_11_27_0_0" data-passage="Luke 11.27" id="Luke.11.27"/><sup>27</sup>And it came to pass, as he said these things, a certain woman out of the multitude lifted up her voice, and said unto him, Blessed is the womb that bare thee, and the breasts which thou didst suck. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.11.28" data-parsed="Luke_11_28_0_0" data-passage="Luke 11.28" id="Luke.11.28"/><sup>28</sup>But he said, Yea rather, blessed are they that hear the word of God, and keep it. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.11.29" data-parsed="Luke_11_29_0_0" data-passage="Luke 11.29" id="Luke.11.29"/><sup>29</sup>And when the multitudes were gathering together unto him, he began to say, This generation is an evil generation: it seeketh after a sign; and there shall no sign be given to it but the sign of Jonah. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.11.30" data-parsed="Luke_11_30_0_0" data-passage="Luke 11.30" id="Luke.11.30"/><sup>30</sup>For even as Jonah became a sign unto the Ninevites, so shall also the Son of man be to this generation.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.11.31" data-parsed="Luke_11_31_0_0" data-passage="Luke 11.31" id="Luke.11.31"/><sup>31</sup>The queen of the south shall rise up in the judgment with the men of this generation, and shall condemn them: for she came from the ends of the earth to hear the wisdom of Solomon; and behold, a greater than Solomon is here. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.11.32" data-parsed="Luke_11_32_0_0" data-passage="Luke 11.32" id="Luke.11.32"/><sup>32</sup>The men of Nineveh shall stand up in the judgment with this generation, and shall condemn it: for they repented at the preaching of Jonah; and behold, a greater than Jonah is here. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.11.33" data-parsed="Luke_11_33_0_0" data-passage="Luke 11.33" id="Luke.11.33"/><sup>33</sup>No man, when he hath lighted a lamp, putteth it in a cellar, neither under the bushel, but on the stand, that they which enter in may see the light. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.11.34" data-parsed="Luke_11_34_0_0" data-passage="Luke 11.34" id="Luke.11.34"/><sup>34</sup>The lamp of thy body is thine eye: when thine eye is single, thy whole body also is full of light;
but when it is evil, thy body also is full of darkness. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.11.35" data-parsed="Luke_11_35_0_0" data-passage="Luke 11.35" id="Luke.11.35"/><sup>35</sup>Look therefore whether the light that is in thee be not darkness. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.11.36" data-parsed="Luke_11_36_0_0" data-passage="Luke 11.36" id="Luke.11.36"/><sup>36</sup>If therefore thy whole body be full of light, having no part dark, it shall be wholly full of light, as when the lamp with its bright shining doth give thee light.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.11.37" data-parsed="Luke_11_37_0_0" data-passage="Luke 11.37" id="Luke.11.37"/><sup>37</sup>Now as he spake, a Pharisee asketh him to dine with him: and he went in, and sat down to meat. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.11.38" data-parsed="Luke_11_38_0_0" data-passage="Luke 11.38" id="Luke.11.38"/><sup>38</sup>And when the Pharisee saw it, he marvelled that he had not first bathed himself before dinner. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.11.39" data-parsed="Luke_11_39_0_0" data-passage="Luke 11.39" id="Luke.11.39"/><sup>39</sup>And the Lord said unto him, Now ye the Pharisees cleanse the outside of the cup and of the platter; but your inward part is full of extortion and wickedness. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.11.40" data-parsed="Luke_11_40_0_0" data-passage="Luke 11.40" id="Luke.11.40"/><sup>40</sup>Ye foolish ones, did not he that made the outside make the inside also?

<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.11.41" data-parsed="Luke_11_41_0_0" data-passage="Luke 11.41" id="Luke.11.41"/><sup>41</sup>But give for alms those things which are within; and behold, all things are clean unto you. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.11.42" data-parsed="Luke_11_42_0_0" data-passage="Luke 11.42" id="Luke.11.42"/><sup>42</sup>But woe unto you Pharisees! for ye tithe mint and rue and every herb, and pass over justice and the love of God: but these ought ye to have done, and not to leave the other undone. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.11.43" data-parsed="Luke_11_43_0_0" data-passage="Luke 11.43" id="Luke.11.43"/><sup>43</sup>Woe unto you Pharisees! for ye love the chief seats in the synagogues, and the salutations in the marketplaces. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.11.44" data-parsed="Luke_11_44_0_0" data-passage="Luke 11.44" id="Luke.11.44"/><sup>44</sup>Woe unto you! for ye are as the tombs which appear not, and the men that walk over <i>them</i> know it not. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.11.45" data-parsed="Luke_11_45_0_0" data-passage="Luke 11.45" id="Luke.11.45"/><sup>45</sup>And one of the lawyers answering saith unto him, Teacher, in saying this thou reproachest us also. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.11.46" data-parsed="Luke_11_46_0_0" data-passage="Luke 11.46" id="Luke.11.46"/><sup>46</sup>And he said, Woe unto you lawyers also! for ye load men with burdens grievous to be borne, and ye yourselves touch not the burdens with one of your fingers. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.11.47" data-parsed="Luke_11_47_0_0" data-passage="Luke 11.47" id="Luke.11.47"/><sup>47</sup>Woe unto you! for ye build the tombs of the prophets, and your fathers killed them. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.11.48" data-parsed="Luke_11_48_0_0" data-passage="Luke 11.48" id="Luke.11.48"/><sup>48</sup>So ye are witnesses and consent unto the works of your fathers: for they killed them, and ye build <i>their tombs</i>. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.11.49" data-parsed="Luke_11_49_0_0" data-passage="Luke 11.49" id="Luke.11.49"/><sup>49</sup>Therefore also said the wisdom of God, I will send unto them prophets and apostles; and <i>some</i> of them they shall kill and persecute; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.11.50" data-parsed="Luke_11_50_0_0" data-passage="Luke 11.50" id="Luke.11.50"/><sup>50</sup>that the blood of all the prophets, which was shed from the foundation of the world, may be required of this generation; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.11.51" data-parsed="Luke_11_51_0_0" data-passage="Luke 11.51" id="Luke.11.51"/><sup>51</sup>from the blood of Abel unto the blood of Zachariah, who perished between the altar and the sanctuary: yea, I say unto you, it shall be required of this generation.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.11.52" data-parsed="Luke_11_52_0_0" data-passage="Luke 11.52" id="Luke.11.52"/><sup>52</sup>Woe unto you lawyers! for ye took away the key of knowledge: ye entered not in yourselves, and them that were entering in ye hindered. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.11.53" data-parsed="Luke_11_53_0_0" data-passage="Luke 11.53" id="Luke.11.53"/><sup>53</sup>And when he was come out from thence, the scribes and the Pharisees began to press upon <i>him</i> vehemently, and to provoke him to speak of many things;

<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.11.54" data-parsed="Luke_11_54_0_0" data-passage="Luke 11.54" id="Luke.11.54"/><sup>54</sup>laying wait for him, to catch something out of his mouth.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>