<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Luke 9</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Luke 9</span></div><div data-next="Luke.10" data-prev="Luke.8" data-progress="83.34%" data-shorttitle="" id="Luke.9" title="Luke 9">
<h2 id="Luke.9-p0.1">9</h2>
<p id="Luke.9-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.9.1" data-parsed="Luke_9_1_0_0" data-passage="Luke 9.1" id="Luke.9.1"/><sup>1</sup>And he called the twelve together, and gave them power and authority over all demons, and to cure diseases. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.9.2" data-parsed="Luke_9_2_0_0" data-passage="Luke 9.2" id="Luke.9.2"/><sup>2</sup>And he sent them forth to preach the kingdom of God, and to heal the sick. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.9.3" data-parsed="Luke_9_3_0_0" data-passage="Luke 9.3" id="Luke.9.3"/><sup>3</sup>And he said unto them, Take nothing for your journey, neither staff, nor wallet, nor bread,
nor money; neither have two coats. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.9.4" data-parsed="Luke_9_4_0_0" data-passage="Luke 9.4" id="Luke.9.4"/><sup>4</sup>And into whatsoever house ye enter,
there abide, and thence depart. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.9.5" data-parsed="Luke_9_5_0_0" data-passage="Luke 9.5" id="Luke.9.5"/><sup>5</sup>And as many as receive you not, when ye depart from that city, shake off the dust from your feet for a testimony against them. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.9.6" data-parsed="Luke_9_6_0_0" data-passage="Luke 9.6" id="Luke.9.6"/><sup>6</sup>And they departed, and went throughout the villages,
preaching the gospel, and healing everywhere. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.9.7" data-parsed="Luke_9_7_0_0" data-passage="Luke 9.7" id="Luke.9.7"/><sup>7</sup>Now Herod the tetrarch heard of all that was done: and he was much perplexed, because that it was said by some, that John was risen from the dead; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.9.8" data-parsed="Luke_9_8_0_0" data-passage="Luke 9.8" id="Luke.9.8"/><sup>8</sup>and by some, that Elijah had appeared; and by others, that one of the old prophets was risen again. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.9.9" data-parsed="Luke_9_9_0_0" data-passage="Luke 9.9" id="Luke.9.9"/><sup>9</sup>And Herod said, John I beheaded: but who is this, about whom I hear such things? And he sought to see him. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.9.10" data-parsed="Luke_9_10_0_0" data-passage="Luke 9.10" id="Luke.9.10"/><sup>10</sup>And the apostles, when they were returned, declared unto him what things they had done. And he took them,
and withdrew apart to a city called Bethsaida. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.9.11" data-parsed="Luke_9_11_0_0" data-passage="Luke 9.11" id="Luke.9.11"/><sup>11</sup>But the multitudes perceiving it followed him: and he welcomed them, and spake to them of the kingdom of God, and them that had need of healing he cured. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.9.12" data-parsed="Luke_9_12_0_0" data-passage="Luke 9.12" id="Luke.9.12"/><sup>12</sup>And the day began to wear away; and the twelve came, and said unto him, Send the multitude away, that they may go into the villages and country round about,
and lodge, and get provisions: for we are here in a desert place. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.9.13" data-parsed="Luke_9_13_0_0" data-passage="Luke 9.13" id="Luke.9.13"/><sup>13</sup>But he said unto them, Give ye them to eat. And they said, We have no more than five loaves and two fishes; except we should go and buy food for all this people. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.9.14" data-parsed="Luke_9_14_0_0" data-passage="Luke 9.14" id="Luke.9.14"/><sup>14</sup>For they were about five thousand men. And he said unto his disciples, Make them sit down in companies, about fifty each. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.9.15" data-parsed="Luke_9_15_0_0" data-passage="Luke 9.15" id="Luke.9.15"/><sup>15</sup>And they did so, and made them all sit down. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.9.16" data-parsed="Luke_9_16_0_0" data-passage="Luke 9.16" id="Luke.9.16"/><sup>16</sup>And he took the five loaves and the two fishes, and looking up to heaven, he blessed them, and brake; and gave to the disciples to set before the multitude. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.9.17" data-parsed="Luke_9_17_0_0" data-passage="Luke 9.17" id="Luke.9.17"/><sup>17</sup>And they ate, and were all filled: and there was taken up that which remained over to them of broken pieces, twelve baskets. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.9.18" data-parsed="Luke_9_18_0_0" data-passage="Luke 9.18" id="Luke.9.18"/><sup>18</sup>And it came to pass, as he was praying apart,
the disciples were with him: and he asked them, saying, Who do the multitudes say that I am? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.9.19" data-parsed="Luke_9_19_0_0" data-passage="Luke 9.19" id="Luke.9.19"/><sup>19</sup>And they answering said, John the Baptist; but others <i>say</i>, Elijah; and others, that one of the old prophets is risen again.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.9.20" data-parsed="Luke_9_20_0_0" data-passage="Luke 9.20" id="Luke.9.20"/><sup>20</sup>And he said unto them, But who say ye that I am? And Peter answering said, The Christ of God. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.9.21" data-parsed="Luke_9_21_0_0" data-passage="Luke 9.21" id="Luke.9.21"/><sup>21</sup>But he charged them, and commanded <i>them</i> to tell this to no man; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.9.22" data-parsed="Luke_9_22_0_0" data-passage="Luke 9.22" id="Luke.9.22"/><sup>22</sup>saying, The Son of man must suffer many things, and be rejected of the elders and chief priests and scribes, and be killed, and the third day be raised up. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.9.23" data-parsed="Luke_9_23_0_0" data-passage="Luke 9.23" id="Luke.9.23"/><sup>23</sup>And he said unto all, If any man would come after me, let him deny himself, and take up his cross daily,
and follow me. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.9.24" data-parsed="Luke_9_24_0_0" data-passage="Luke 9.24" id="Luke.9.24"/><sup>24</sup>For whosoever would save his life shall lose it; but whosoever shall lose his life for my sake, the same shall save it. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.9.25" data-parsed="Luke_9_25_0_0" data-passage="Luke 9.25" id="Luke.9.25"/><sup>25</sup>For what is a man profited, if he gain the whole world, and lose or forfeit his own self? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.9.26" data-parsed="Luke_9_26_0_0" data-passage="Luke 9.26" id="Luke.9.26"/><sup>26</sup>For whosoever shall be ashamed of me and of my words, of him shall the Son of man be ashamed, when he cometh in his own glory, and <i>the glory</i> of the Father, and of the holy angels. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.9.27" data-parsed="Luke_9_27_0_0" data-passage="Luke 9.27" id="Luke.9.27"/><sup>27</sup>But I tell you of a truth, There are some of them that stand here, who shall in no wise taste of death, till they see the kingdom of God. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.9.28" data-parsed="Luke_9_28_0_0" data-passage="Luke 9.28" id="Luke.9.28"/><sup>28</sup>And it came to pass about eight days after these sayings, that he took with him Peter and John and James, and went up into the mountain to pray. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.9.29" data-parsed="Luke_9_29_0_0" data-passage="Luke 9.29" id="Luke.9.29"/><sup>29</sup>And as he was praying,
the fashion of his countenance was altered, and his raiment <i>became</i>
white <i>and</i> dazzling. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.9.30" data-parsed="Luke_9_30_0_0" data-passage="Luke 9.30" id="Luke.9.30"/><sup>30</sup>And behold, there talked with him two men,
who were Moses and Elijah; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.9.31" data-parsed="Luke_9_31_0_0" data-passage="Luke 9.31" id="Luke.9.31"/><sup>31</sup>who appeared in glory, and spake of his decease which he was about to accomplish at Jerusalem. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.9.32" data-parsed="Luke_9_32_0_0" data-passage="Luke 9.32" id="Luke.9.32"/><sup>32</sup>Now Peter and they that were with him were heavy with sleep: but when they were fully awake, they saw his glory, and the two men that stood with him. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.9.33" data-parsed="Luke_9_33_0_0" data-passage="Luke 9.33" id="Luke.9.33"/><sup>33</sup>And it came to pass, as they were parting from him, Peter said unto Jesus, Master,
it is good for us to be here: and let us make three tabernacles; one for thee, and one for Moses, and one for Elijah: not knowing what he said.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.9.34" data-parsed="Luke_9_34_0_0" data-passage="Luke 9.34" id="Luke.9.34"/><sup>34</sup>And while he said these things, there came a cloud, and overshadowed them: and they feared as they entered into the cloud. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.9.35" data-parsed="Luke_9_35_0_0" data-passage="Luke 9.35" id="Luke.9.35"/><sup>35</sup>And a voice came out of the cloud, saying, This is my Son, my chosen: hear ye him. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.9.36" data-parsed="Luke_9_36_0_0" data-passage="Luke 9.36" id="Luke.9.36"/><sup>36</sup>And when the voice came, Jesus was found alone. And they held their peace, and told no man in those days any of the things which they had seen. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.9.37" data-parsed="Luke_9_37_0_0" data-passage="Luke 9.37" id="Luke.9.37"/><sup>37</sup>And it came to pass, on the next day, when they were come down from the mountain, a great multitude met him. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.9.38" data-parsed="Luke_9_38_0_0" data-passage="Luke 9.38" id="Luke.9.38"/><sup>38</sup>And behold, a man from the multitude cried,
saying, Teacher, I beseech thee to look upon my son; for he is mine only child: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.9.39" data-parsed="Luke_9_39_0_0" data-passage="Luke 9.39" id="Luke.9.39"/><sup>39</sup>and behold, a spirit taketh him, and he suddenly crieth out; and it teareth him that he foameth, and it hardly departeth from him, bruising him sorely. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.9.40" data-parsed="Luke_9_40_0_0" data-passage="Luke 9.40" id="Luke.9.40"/><sup>40</sup>And I besought thy disciples to cast it out; and they could not. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.9.41" data-parsed="Luke_9_41_0_0" data-passage="Luke 9.41" id="Luke.9.41"/><sup>41</sup>And Jesus answered and said, O faithless and perverse generation,
how long shall I be with you, and bear with you? bring hither thy son.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.9.42" data-parsed="Luke_9_42_0_0" data-passage="Luke 9.42" id="Luke.9.42"/><sup>42</sup>And as he was yet a coming, the demon dashed him down, and tare <i>him</i> grievously. But Jesus rebuked the unclean spirit, and healed the boy, and gave him back to his father. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.9.43" data-parsed="Luke_9_43_0_0" data-passage="Luke 9.43" id="Luke.9.43"/><sup>43</sup>And they were all astonished at the majesty of God. But while all were marvelling at all the things which he did, he said unto his disciples, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.9.44" data-parsed="Luke_9_44_0_0" data-passage="Luke 9.44" id="Luke.9.44"/><sup>44</sup>Let these words sink into your ears:
for the Son of man shall be delivered up into the hands of men. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.9.45" data-parsed="Luke_9_45_0_0" data-passage="Luke 9.45" id="Luke.9.45"/><sup>45</sup>But they understood not this saying, and it was concealed from them, that they should not perceive it; and they were afraid to ask him about this saying.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.9.46" data-parsed="Luke_9_46_0_0" data-passage="Luke 9.46" id="Luke.9.46"/><sup>46</sup>And there arose a reasoning among them, which of them was the greatest.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.9.47" data-parsed="Luke_9_47_0_0" data-passage="Luke 9.47" id="Luke.9.47"/><sup>47</sup>But when Jesus saw the reasoning of their heart, he took a little child, and set him by his side, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.9.48" data-parsed="Luke_9_48_0_0" data-passage="Luke 9.48" id="Luke.9.48"/><sup>48</sup>and said unto them, Whosoever shall receive this little child in my name receiveth me: and whosoever shall receive me receiveth him that sent me: for he that is least among you all,
the same is great. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.9.49" data-parsed="Luke_9_49_0_0" data-passage="Luke 9.49" id="Luke.9.49"/><sup>49</sup>And John answered and said, Master, we saw one casting out demons in thy name; and we forbade him, because he followeth not with us. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.9.50" data-parsed="Luke_9_50_0_0" data-passage="Luke 9.50" id="Luke.9.50"/><sup>50</sup>But Jesus said unto him, Forbid <i>him</i> not: for he that is not against you is for you. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.9.51" data-parsed="Luke_9_51_0_0" data-passage="Luke 9.51" id="Luke.9.51"/><sup>51</sup>And it came to pass, when the days were well-nigh come that he should be received up, he stedfastly set his face to go to Jerusalem, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.9.52" data-parsed="Luke_9_52_0_0" data-passage="Luke 9.52" id="Luke.9.52"/><sup>52</sup>and sent messengers before his face: and they went,
and entered into a village of the Samaritans, to make ready for him.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.9.53" data-parsed="Luke_9_53_0_0" data-passage="Luke 9.53" id="Luke.9.53"/><sup>53</sup>And they did not receive him, because his face was <i>as though he were</i> going to Jerusalem. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.9.54" data-parsed="Luke_9_54_0_0" data-passage="Luke 9.54" id="Luke.9.54"/><sup>54</sup>And when his disciples James and John saw <i>this</i>, they said, Lord, wilt thou that we bid fire to come down from heaven, and consume them? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.9.55" data-parsed="Luke_9_55_0_0" data-passage="Luke 9.55" id="Luke.9.55"/><sup>55</sup>But he turned, and rebuked them. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.9.56" data-parsed="Luke_9_56_0_0" data-passage="Luke 9.56" id="Luke.9.56"/><sup>56</sup>And they went to another village. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.9.57" data-parsed="Luke_9_57_0_0" data-passage="Luke 9.57" id="Luke.9.57"/><sup>57</sup>And as they went on the way, a certain man said unto him, I will follow thee whithersoever thou goest. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.9.58" data-parsed="Luke_9_58_0_0" data-passage="Luke 9.58" id="Luke.9.58"/><sup>58</sup>And Jesus said unto him, The foxes have holes, and the birds of the heaven <i>have</i> nests; but the Son of man hath not where to lay his head.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.9.59" data-parsed="Luke_9_59_0_0" data-passage="Luke 9.59" id="Luke.9.59"/><sup>59</sup>And he said unto another, Follow me. But he said, Lord, suffer me first to go and bury my father. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.9.60" data-parsed="Luke_9_60_0_0" data-passage="Luke 9.60" id="Luke.9.60"/><sup>60</sup>But he said unto him, Leave the dead to bury their own dead; but go thou and publish abroad the kingdom of God. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.9.61" data-parsed="Luke_9_61_0_0" data-passage="Luke 9.61" id="Luke.9.61"/><sup>61</sup>And another also said, I will follow thee, Lord; but first suffer me to bid farewell to them that are at my house. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.9.62" data-parsed="Luke_9_62_0_0" data-passage="Luke 9.62" id="Luke.9.62"/><sup>62</sup>But Jesus said unto him, No man,
having put his hand to the plow, and looking back, is fit for the kingdom of God.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>