<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Luke 3</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Luke 3</span></div><div data-next="Luke.4" data-prev="Luke.2" data-progress="82.53%" data-shorttitle="" id="Luke.3" title="Luke 3">
<h2 id="Luke.3-p0.1">3</h2>
<p id="Luke.3-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.3.1" data-parsed="Luke_3_1_0_0" data-passage="Luke 3.1" id="Luke.3.1"/><sup>1</sup>Now in the fifteenth year of the reign of Tiberius Caesar, Pontius Pilate being governor of Judaea, and Herod being tetrarch of Galilee, and his brother Philip tetrarch of the region of Ituraea and Trachonitis, and Lysanias tetrarch of Abilene, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.3.2" data-parsed="Luke_3_2_0_0" data-passage="Luke 3.2" id="Luke.3.2"/><sup>2</sup>in the highpriesthood of Annas and Caiaphas, the word of God came unto John the son of Zacharias in the wilderness. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.3.3" data-parsed="Luke_3_3_0_0" data-passage="Luke 3.3" id="Luke.3.3"/><sup>3</sup>And he came into all the region round about the Jordan,
preaching the baptism of repentance unto remission of sins; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.3.4" data-parsed="Luke_3_4_0_0" data-passage="Luke 3.4" id="Luke.3.4"/><sup>4</sup>as it is written in the book of the words of Isaiah the prophet, The voice of one crying in the wilderness, Make ye ready the way of the Lord, Make his paths straight. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.3.5" data-parsed="Luke_3_5_0_0" data-passage="Luke 3.5" id="Luke.3.5"/><sup>5</sup>Every valley shall be filled, And every mountain and hill shall be brought low; And the crooked shall become straight, And the rough ways smooth; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.3.6" data-parsed="Luke_3_6_0_0" data-passage="Luke 3.6" id="Luke.3.6"/><sup>6</sup>And all flesh shall see the salvation of God. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.3.7" data-parsed="Luke_3_7_0_0" data-passage="Luke 3.7" id="Luke.3.7"/><sup>7</sup>He said therefore to the multitudes that went out to be baptized of him, Ye offspring of vipers, who warned you to flee from the wrath to come? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.3.8" data-parsed="Luke_3_8_0_0" data-passage="Luke 3.8" id="Luke.3.8"/><sup>8</sup>Bring forth therefore fruits worthy of repentance, and begin not to say within yourselves, We have Abraham to our father: for I say unto you, that God is able of these stones to raise up children unto Abraham. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.3.9" data-parsed="Luke_3_9_0_0" data-passage="Luke 3.9" id="Luke.3.9"/><sup>9</sup>And even now the axe also lieth at the root of the trees: every tree therefore that bringeth not forth good fruit is hewn down, and cast into the fire. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.3.10" data-parsed="Luke_3_10_0_0" data-passage="Luke 3.10" id="Luke.3.10"/><sup>10</sup>And the multitudes asked him, saying, What then must we do? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.3.11" data-parsed="Luke_3_11_0_0" data-passage="Luke 3.11" id="Luke.3.11"/><sup>11</sup>And he answered and said unto them, He that hath two coats, let him impart to him that hath none;
and he that hath food, let him do likewise. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.3.12" data-parsed="Luke_3_12_0_0" data-passage="Luke 3.12" id="Luke.3.12"/><sup>12</sup>And there came also publicans to be baptized, and they said unto him, Teacher, what must we do?

<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.3.13" data-parsed="Luke_3_13_0_0" data-passage="Luke 3.13" id="Luke.3.13"/><sup>13</sup>And he said unto them, Extort no more than that which is appointed you.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.3.14" data-parsed="Luke_3_14_0_0" data-passage="Luke 3.14" id="Luke.3.14"/><sup>14</sup>And soldiers also asked him, saying, And we, what must we do? And he said unto them, Extort from no man by violence, neither accuse <i>any one</i> wrongfully; and be content with your wages. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.3.15" data-parsed="Luke_3_15_0_0" data-passage="Luke 3.15" id="Luke.3.15"/><sup>15</sup>And as the people were in expectation, and all men reasoned in their hearts concerning John,
whether haply he were the Christ; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.3.16" data-parsed="Luke_3_16_0_0" data-passage="Luke 3.16" id="Luke.3.16"/><sup>16</sup>John answered, saying unto them all,
I indeed baptize you with water; but there cometh he that is mightier than I,
the latchet of whose shoes I am not worthy to unloose: he shall baptize you in the Holy Spirit and <i>in</i> fire: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.3.17" data-parsed="Luke_3_17_0_0" data-passage="Luke 3.17" id="Luke.3.17"/><sup>17</sup>whose fan is in his hand,
thoroughly to cleanse his threshing-floor, and to gather the wheat into his garner; but the chaff he will burn up with unquenchable fire. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.3.18" data-parsed="Luke_3_18_0_0" data-passage="Luke 3.18" id="Luke.3.18"/><sup>18</sup>With many other exhortations therefore preached he good tidings unto the people;

<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.3.19" data-parsed="Luke_3_19_0_0" data-passage="Luke 3.19" id="Luke.3.19"/><sup>19</sup>but Herod the tetrarch, being reproved by him for Herodias his brother's wife, and for all the evil things which Herod had done, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.3.20" data-parsed="Luke_3_20_0_0" data-passage="Luke 3.20" id="Luke.3.20"/><sup>20</sup>added this also to them all, that he shut up John in prison. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.3.21" data-parsed="Luke_3_21_0_0" data-passage="Luke 3.21" id="Luke.3.21"/><sup>21</sup>Now it came to pass, when all the people were baptized, that, Jesus also having been baptized, and praying, the heaven was opened, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.3.22" data-parsed="Luke_3_22_0_0" data-passage="Luke 3.22" id="Luke.3.22"/><sup>22</sup>and the Holy Spirit descended in a bodily form, as a dove, upon him, and a voice came out of heaven, Thou art my beloved Son; in thee I am well pleased. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.3.23" data-parsed="Luke_3_23_0_0" data-passage="Luke 3.23" id="Luke.3.23"/><sup>23</sup>And Jesus himself, when he began <i>to teach</i>, was about thirty years of age, being the son (as was supposed) of Joseph, the <i>son</i> of Heli, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.3.24" data-parsed="Luke_3_24_0_0" data-passage="Luke 3.24" id="Luke.3.24"/><sup>24</sup>the <i>son</i> of Matthat, the <i>son</i> of Levi, the <i>son</i> of Melchi,
the <i>son</i> of Jannai, the <i>son</i> of Joseph, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.3.25" data-parsed="Luke_3_25_0_0" data-passage="Luke 3.25" id="Luke.3.25"/><sup>25</sup>the <i>son</i>
of Mattathias, the <i>son</i> of Amos, the <i>son</i> of Nahum, the <i>son</i> of Esli, the <i>son</i> of Naggai, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.3.26" data-parsed="Luke_3_26_0_0" data-passage="Luke 3.26" id="Luke.3.26"/><sup>26</sup>the <i>son</i> of Maath, the <i>son</i> of Mattathias, the <i>son</i> of Semein, the <i>son</i> of Josech, the <i>son</i> of Joda, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.3.27" data-parsed="Luke_3_27_0_0" data-passage="Luke 3.27" id="Luke.3.27"/><sup>27</sup>the <i>son</i> of Joanan, the <i>son</i> of Rhesa, the <i>son</i> of Zerubbabel, the <i>son</i> of Shealtiel, the <i>son</i> of Neri, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.3.28" data-parsed="Luke_3_28_0_0" data-passage="Luke 3.28" id="Luke.3.28"/><sup>28</sup>the <i>son</i> of Melchi, the <i>son</i> of Addi, the <i>son</i> of Cosam, the <i>son</i> of Elmadam, the <i>son</i> of Er, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.3.29" data-parsed="Luke_3_29_0_0" data-passage="Luke 3.29" id="Luke.3.29"/><sup>29</sup>the <i>son</i> of Jesus, the <i>son</i> of Eliezer, the son of Jorim, the <i>son</i> of Matthat, the <i>son</i> of Levi, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.3.30" data-parsed="Luke_3_30_0_0" data-passage="Luke 3.30" id="Luke.3.30"/><sup>30</sup>the <i>son</i> of Symeon, the <i>son</i> of Judas, the <i>son</i> of Joseph, the <i>son</i> of Jonam, the <i>son</i>
of Eliakim, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.3.31" data-parsed="Luke_3_31_0_0" data-passage="Luke 3.31" id="Luke.3.31"/><sup>31</sup>the <i>son</i> of Melea, the <i>son</i> of Menna, the <i>son</i> of Mattatha, the <i>son</i> of Nathan, the <i>son</i> of David,

<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.3.32" data-parsed="Luke_3_32_0_0" data-passage="Luke 3.32" id="Luke.3.32"/><sup>32</sup>the <i>son</i> of Jesse, the <i>son</i> of Obed, the <i>son</i> of Boaz, the <i>son</i> of Salmon, the <i>son</i> of Nahshon, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.3.33" data-parsed="Luke_3_33_0_0" data-passage="Luke 3.33" id="Luke.3.33"/><sup>33</sup>the <i>son</i> of Amminadab, the <i>son</i> of Arni, the <i>son</i> of Hezron,
the <i>son</i> of Perez, the <i>son</i> of Judah, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.3.34" data-parsed="Luke_3_34_0_0" data-passage="Luke 3.34" id="Luke.3.34"/><sup>34</sup>the <i>son</i> of Jacob, the <i>son</i> of Isaac, the <i>son</i> of Abraham, the <i>son</i>
of Terah, the <i>son</i> of Nahor, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.3.35" data-parsed="Luke_3_35_0_0" data-passage="Luke 3.35" id="Luke.3.35"/><sup>35</sup>the <i>son</i> of Serug, the <i>son</i> of Reu, the <i>son</i> of Peleg, the <i>son</i> of Eber, the <i>son</i> of Shelah 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.3.36" data-parsed="Luke_3_36_0_0" data-passage="Luke 3.36" id="Luke.3.36"/><sup>36</sup>the <i>son</i> of Cainan, the <i>son</i> of Arphaxad, the <i>son</i> of Shem, the <i>son</i> of Noah, the <i>son</i>
of Lamech, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.3.37" data-parsed="Luke_3_37_0_0" data-passage="Luke 3.37" id="Luke.3.37"/><sup>37</sup>the <i>son</i> of Methuselah, the <i>son</i> of Enoch, the <i>son</i> of Jared, the <i>son</i> of Mahalaleel, the <i>son</i> of Cainan, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.3.38" data-parsed="Luke_3_38_0_0" data-passage="Luke 3.38" id="Luke.3.38"/><sup>38</sup>the <i>son</i> of Enos, the <i>son</i> of Seth, the <i>son</i> of Adam, the <i>son</i> of God.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>