<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Luke 23</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Luke 23</span></div><div data-next="Luke.24" data-prev="Luke.22" data-progress="85.09%" data-shorttitle="" id="Luke.23" title="Luke 23">
<h2 id="Luke.23-p0.1">23</h2>
<p id="Luke.23-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.23.1" data-parsed="Luke_23_1_0_0" data-passage="Luke 23.1" id="Luke.23.1"/><sup>1</sup>And the whole company of them rose up, and brought him before Pilate. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.23.2" data-parsed="Luke_23_2_0_0" data-passage="Luke 23.2" id="Luke.23.2"/><sup>2</sup>And they began to accuse him, saying, We found this man perverting our nation, and forbidding to give tribute to Caesar, and saying that he himself is Christ a king. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.23.3" data-parsed="Luke_23_3_0_0" data-passage="Luke 23.3" id="Luke.23.3"/><sup>3</sup>And Pilate asked him, saying, Art thou the King of the Jews? And he answered him and said, Thou sayest. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.23.4" data-parsed="Luke_23_4_0_0" data-passage="Luke 23.4" id="Luke.23.4"/><sup>4</sup>And Pilate said unto the chief priests and the multitudes, I find no fault in this man. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.23.5" data-parsed="Luke_23_5_0_0" data-passage="Luke 23.5" id="Luke.23.5"/><sup>5</sup>But they were the more urgent, saying, He stirreth up the people, teaching throughout all Judaea, and beginning from Galilee even unto this place. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.23.6" data-parsed="Luke_23_6_0_0" data-passage="Luke 23.6" id="Luke.23.6"/><sup>6</sup>But when Pilate heard it, he asked whether the man were a Galilaean. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.23.7" data-parsed="Luke_23_7_0_0" data-passage="Luke 23.7" id="Luke.23.7"/><sup>7</sup>And when he knew that he was of Herod's jurisdiction, he sent him unto Herod, who himself also was at Jerusalem in these days. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.23.8" data-parsed="Luke_23_8_0_0" data-passage="Luke 23.8" id="Luke.23.8"/><sup>8</sup>Now when Herod saw Jesus, he was exceeding glad: for he was of a long time desirous to see him, because he had heard concerning him; and he hoped to see some miracle done by him. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.23.9" data-parsed="Luke_23_9_0_0" data-passage="Luke 23.9" id="Luke.23.9"/><sup>9</sup>And he questioned him in many words; but he answered him nothing. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.23.10" data-parsed="Luke_23_10_0_0" data-passage="Luke 23.10" id="Luke.23.10"/><sup>10</sup>And the chief priests and the scribes stood,
vehemently accusing him. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.23.11" data-parsed="Luke_23_11_0_0" data-passage="Luke 23.11" id="Luke.23.11"/><sup>11</sup>And Herod with his soldiers set him at nought,
and mocked him, and arraying him in gorgeous apparel sent him back to Pilate.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.23.12" data-parsed="Luke_23_12_0_0" data-passage="Luke 23.12" id="Luke.23.12"/><sup>12</sup>And Herod and Pilate became friends with each other that very day: for before they were at enmity between themselves. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.23.13" data-parsed="Luke_23_13_0_0" data-passage="Luke 23.13" id="Luke.23.13"/><sup>13</sup>And Pilate called together the chief priests and the rulers and the people, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.23.14" data-parsed="Luke_23_14_0_0" data-passage="Luke 23.14" id="Luke.23.14"/><sup>14</sup>and said unto them, Ye brought unto me this man, as one that perverteth the people: and behold, I having examined him before you, found no fault in this man touching those things whereof ye accuse him: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.23.15" data-parsed="Luke_23_15_0_0" data-passage="Luke 23.15" id="Luke.23.15"/><sup>15</sup>no, nor yet Herod: for he sent him back unto us; and behold, nothing worthy of death hath been done by him.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.23.16" data-parsed="Luke_23_16_0_0" data-passage="Luke 23.16" id="Luke.23.16"/><sup>16</sup>I will therefore chastise him, and release him. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.23.17" data-parsed="Luke_23_17_0_0" data-passage="Luke 23.17" id="Luke.23.17"/><sup>17</sup><i>Now he must needs release unto them at the feast one prisoner.</i>
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.23.18" data-parsed="Luke_23_18_0_0" data-passage="Luke 23.18" id="Luke.23.18"/><sup>18</sup>But they cried out all together, saying, Away with this man, and release unto us Barabbas:
-- 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.23.19" data-parsed="Luke_23_19_0_0" data-passage="Luke 23.19" id="Luke.23.19"/><sup>19</sup>one who for a certain insurrection made in the city, and for murder,
was cast into prison. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.23.20" data-parsed="Luke_23_20_0_0" data-passage="Luke 23.20" id="Luke.23.20"/><sup>20</sup>And Pilate spake unto them again, desiring to release Jesus; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.23.21" data-parsed="Luke_23_21_0_0" data-passage="Luke 23.21" id="Luke.23.21"/><sup>21</sup>but they shouted, saying, Crucify, crucify him.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.23.22" data-parsed="Luke_23_22_0_0" data-passage="Luke 23.22" id="Luke.23.22"/><sup>22</sup>And he said unto them the third time, Why, what evil hath this man done? I have found no cause of death in him: I will therefore chastise him and release him. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.23.23" data-parsed="Luke_23_23_0_0" data-passage="Luke 23.23" id="Luke.23.23"/><sup>23</sup>But they were urgent with loud voices, asking that he might be crucified. And their voices prevailed. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.23.24" data-parsed="Luke_23_24_0_0" data-passage="Luke 23.24" id="Luke.23.24"/><sup>24</sup>And Pilate gave sentence that what they asked for should be done. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.23.25" data-parsed="Luke_23_25_0_0" data-passage="Luke 23.25" id="Luke.23.25"/><sup>25</sup>And he released him that for insurrection and murder had been cast into prison, whom they asked for; but Jesus he delivered up to their will. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.23.26" data-parsed="Luke_23_26_0_0" data-passage="Luke 23.26" id="Luke.23.26"/><sup>26</sup>And when they led him away, they laid hold upon one Simon of Cyrene, coming from the country, and laid on him the cross, to bear it after Jesus. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.23.27" data-parsed="Luke_23_27_0_0" data-passage="Luke 23.27" id="Luke.23.27"/><sup>27</sup>And there followed him a great multitude of the people, and of women who bewailed and lamented him.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.23.28" data-parsed="Luke_23_28_0_0" data-passage="Luke 23.28" id="Luke.23.28"/><sup>28</sup>But Jesus turning unto them said, Daughters of Jerusalem, weep not for me, but weep for yourselves, and for your children. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.23.29" data-parsed="Luke_23_29_0_0" data-passage="Luke 23.29" id="Luke.23.29"/><sup>29</sup>For behold, the days are coming, in which they shall say, Blessed are the barren, and the wombs that never bare, and the breasts that never gave suck. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.23.30" data-parsed="Luke_23_30_0_0" data-passage="Luke 23.30" id="Luke.23.30"/><sup>30</sup>Then shall they begin to say to the mountains, Fall on us; and to the hills, Cover us.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.23.31" data-parsed="Luke_23_31_0_0" data-passage="Luke 23.31" id="Luke.23.31"/><sup>31</sup>For if they do these things in the green tree, what shall be done in the dry? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.23.32" data-parsed="Luke_23_32_0_0" data-passage="Luke 23.32" id="Luke.23.32"/><sup>32</sup>And there were also two others, malefactors, led with him to be put to death. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.23.33" data-parsed="Luke_23_33_0_0" data-passage="Luke 23.33" id="Luke.23.33"/><sup>33</sup>And when they came unto the place which is called The skull, there they crucified him, and the malefactors, one on the right hand and the other on the left. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.23.34" data-parsed="Luke_23_34_0_0" data-passage="Luke 23.34" id="Luke.23.34"/><sup>34</sup>And Jesus said, Father, forgive them; for they know not what they do. And parting his garments among them, they cast lots. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.23.35" data-parsed="Luke_23_35_0_0" data-passage="Luke 23.35" id="Luke.23.35"/><sup>35</sup>And the people stood beholding. And the rulers also scoffed at him, saying, He saved others; let him save himself, if this is the Christ of God, his chosen. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.23.36" data-parsed="Luke_23_36_0_0" data-passage="Luke 23.36" id="Luke.23.36"/><sup>36</sup>And the soldiers also mocked him, coming to him,
offering him vinegar, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.23.37" data-parsed="Luke_23_37_0_0" data-passage="Luke 23.37" id="Luke.23.37"/><sup>37</sup>and saying, If thou art the King of the Jews,
save thyself. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.23.38" data-parsed="Luke_23_38_0_0" data-passage="Luke 23.38" id="Luke.23.38"/><sup>38</sup>And there was also a superscription over him, THIS IS THE KING OF THE JEWS. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.23.39" data-parsed="Luke_23_39_0_0" data-passage="Luke 23.39" id="Luke.23.39"/><sup>39</sup>And one of the malefactors that were hanged railed on him, saying, Art not thou the Christ? save thyself and us. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.23.40" data-parsed="Luke_23_40_0_0" data-passage="Luke 23.40" id="Luke.23.40"/><sup>40</sup>But the other answered, and rebuking him said, Dost thou not even fear God, seeing thou art in the same condemnation? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.23.41" data-parsed="Luke_23_41_0_0" data-passage="Luke 23.41" id="Luke.23.41"/><sup>41</sup>And we indeed justly; for we receive the due reward of our deeds: but this man hath done nothing amiss. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.23.42" data-parsed="Luke_23_42_0_0" data-passage="Luke 23.42" id="Luke.23.42"/><sup>42</sup>And he said, Jesus, remember me when thou comest in thy kingdom. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.23.43" data-parsed="Luke_23_43_0_0" data-passage="Luke 23.43" id="Luke.23.43"/><sup>43</sup>And he said unto him, Verily I say unto thee, To-day shalt thou be with me in Paradise. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.23.44" data-parsed="Luke_23_44_0_0" data-passage="Luke 23.44" id="Luke.23.44"/><sup>44</sup>And it was now about the sixth hour, and a darkness came over the whole land until the ninth hour, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.23.45" data-parsed="Luke_23_45_0_0" data-passage="Luke 23.45" id="Luke.23.45"/><sup>45</sup>the sun's light failing: and the veil of the temple was rent in the midst. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.23.46" data-parsed="Luke_23_46_0_0" data-passage="Luke 23.46" id="Luke.23.46"/><sup>46</sup>And Jesus, crying with a loud voice, said, Father, into thy hands I commend my spirit: and having said this, he gave up the ghost. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.23.47" data-parsed="Luke_23_47_0_0" data-passage="Luke 23.47" id="Luke.23.47"/><sup>47</sup>And when the centurion saw what was done,
he glorified God, saying, Certainly this was a righteous man. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.23.48" data-parsed="Luke_23_48_0_0" data-passage="Luke 23.48" id="Luke.23.48"/><sup>48</sup>And all the multitudes that came together to this sight, when they beheld the things that were done, returned smiting their breasts. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.23.49" data-parsed="Luke_23_49_0_0" data-passage="Luke 23.49" id="Luke.23.49"/><sup>49</sup>And all his acquaintance, and the women that followed with him from Galilee, stood afar off, seeing these things. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.23.50" data-parsed="Luke_23_50_0_0" data-passage="Luke 23.50" id="Luke.23.50"/><sup>50</sup>And behold, a man named Joseph, who was a councillor, a good and righteous man 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.23.51" data-parsed="Luke_23_51_0_0" data-passage="Luke 23.51" id="Luke.23.51"/><sup>51</sup>(he had not consented to their counsel and deed), <i>a man</i> of Arimathaea, a city of the Jews, who was looking for the kingdom of God: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.23.52" data-parsed="Luke_23_52_0_0" data-passage="Luke 23.52" id="Luke.23.52"/><sup>52</sup>this man went to Pilate, and asked for the body of Jesus. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.23.53" data-parsed="Luke_23_53_0_0" data-passage="Luke 23.53" id="Luke.23.53"/><sup>53</sup>And he took it down, and wrapped it in a linen cloth, and laid him in a tomb that was hewn in stone, where never man had yet lain. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.23.54" data-parsed="Luke_23_54_0_0" data-passage="Luke 23.54" id="Luke.23.54"/><sup>54</sup>And it was the day of the Preparation, and the sabbath drew on.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.23.55" data-parsed="Luke_23_55_0_0" data-passage="Luke 23.55" id="Luke.23.55"/><sup>55</sup>And the women, who had come with him out of Galilee, followed after,
and beheld the tomb, and how his body was laid. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.23.56" data-parsed="Luke_23_56_0_0" data-passage="Luke 23.56" id="Luke.23.56"/><sup>56</sup>And they returned, and prepared spices and ointments. And on the sabbath they rested according to the commandment.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>