<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Luke 19</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Luke 19</span></div><div data-next="Luke.20" data-prev="Luke.18" data-progress="84.57%" data-shorttitle="" id="Luke.19" title="Luke 19">
<h2 id="Luke.19-p0.1">19</h2>
<p id="Luke.19-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.19.1" data-parsed="Luke_19_1_0_0" data-passage="Luke 19.1" id="Luke.19.1"/><sup>1</sup>And he entered and was passing through Jericho. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.19.2" data-parsed="Luke_19_2_0_0" data-passage="Luke 19.2" id="Luke.19.2"/><sup>2</sup>And behold, a man called by name Zacchaeus; and he was a chief publican, and he was rich.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.19.3" data-parsed="Luke_19_3_0_0" data-passage="Luke 19.3" id="Luke.19.3"/><sup>3</sup>And he sought to see Jesus who he was; and could not for the crowd,
because he was little of stature. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.19.4" data-parsed="Luke_19_4_0_0" data-passage="Luke 19.4" id="Luke.19.4"/><sup>4</sup>And he ran on before, and climbed up into a sycomore tree to see him: for he was to pass that way. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.19.5" data-parsed="Luke_19_5_0_0" data-passage="Luke 19.5" id="Luke.19.5"/><sup>5</sup>And when Jesus came to the place, he looked up, and said unto him, Zacchaeus, make haste, and come down; for to-day I must abide at thy house. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.19.6" data-parsed="Luke_19_6_0_0" data-passage="Luke 19.6" id="Luke.19.6"/><sup>6</sup>And he made haste, and came down, and received him joyfully. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.19.7" data-parsed="Luke_19_7_0_0" data-passage="Luke 19.7" id="Luke.19.7"/><sup>7</sup>And when they saw it,
they all murmured, saying, He is gone in to lodge with a man that is a sinner. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.19.8" data-parsed="Luke_19_8_0_0" data-passage="Luke 19.8" id="Luke.19.8"/><sup>8</sup>And Zacchaeus stood, and said unto the Lord, Behold, Lord, the half of my goods I give to the poor; and if I have wrongfully exacted aught of any man, I restore fourfold. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.19.9" data-parsed="Luke_19_9_0_0" data-passage="Luke 19.9" id="Luke.19.9"/><sup>9</sup>And Jesus said unto him, To-day is salvation come to this house, forasmuch as he also is a son of Abraham.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.19.10" data-parsed="Luke_19_10_0_0" data-passage="Luke 19.10" id="Luke.19.10"/><sup>10</sup>For the Son of man came to seek and to save that which was lost.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.19.11" data-parsed="Luke_19_11_0_0" data-passage="Luke 19.11" id="Luke.19.11"/><sup>11</sup>And as they heard these things, he added and spake a parable, because he was nigh to Jerusalem, and <i>because</i> they supposed that the kingdom of God was immediately to appear. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.19.12" data-parsed="Luke_19_12_0_0" data-passage="Luke 19.12" id="Luke.19.12"/><sup>12</sup>He said therefore, A certain nobleman went into a far country, to receive for himself a kingdom, and to return.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.19.13" data-parsed="Luke_19_13_0_0" data-passage="Luke 19.13" id="Luke.19.13"/><sup>13</sup>And he called ten servants of his, and gave them ten pounds, and said unto them, Trade ye <i>herewith</i> till I come. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.19.14" data-parsed="Luke_19_14_0_0" data-passage="Luke 19.14" id="Luke.19.14"/><sup>14</sup>But his citizens hated him, and sent an ambassage after him, saying, We will not that this man reign over us. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.19.15" data-parsed="Luke_19_15_0_0" data-passage="Luke 19.15" id="Luke.19.15"/><sup>15</sup>And it came to pass, when he was come back again, having received the kingdom, that he commanded these servants, unto whom he had given the money, to be called to him, that he might know what they had gained by trading. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.19.16" data-parsed="Luke_19_16_0_0" data-passage="Luke 19.16" id="Luke.19.16"/><sup>16</sup>And the first came before him, saying, Lord, thy pound hath made ten pounds more. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.19.17" data-parsed="Luke_19_17_0_0" data-passage="Luke 19.17" id="Luke.19.17"/><sup>17</sup>And he said unto him, Well done, thou good servant: because thou wast found faithful in a very little, have thou authority over ten cities. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.19.18" data-parsed="Luke_19_18_0_0" data-passage="Luke 19.18" id="Luke.19.18"/><sup>18</sup>And the second came, saying, Thy pound,
Lord, hath made five pounds. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.19.19" data-parsed="Luke_19_19_0_0" data-passage="Luke 19.19" id="Luke.19.19"/><sup>19</sup>And he said unto him also, Be thou also over five cities. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.19.20" data-parsed="Luke_19_20_0_0" data-passage="Luke 19.20" id="Luke.19.20"/><sup>20</sup>And another came, saying, Lord, behold, <i>here is</i> thy pound, which I kept laid up in a napkin: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.19.21" data-parsed="Luke_19_21_0_0" data-passage="Luke 19.21" id="Luke.19.21"/><sup>21</sup>for I feared thee,
because thou art an austere man: thou takest up that which thou layedst not down, and reapest that which thou didst not sow. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.19.22" data-parsed="Luke_19_22_0_0" data-passage="Luke 19.22" id="Luke.19.22"/><sup>22</sup>He saith unto him, Out of thine own mouth will I judge thee, thou wicked servant. Thou knewest that I am an austere man, taking up that which I laid not down, and reaping that which I did not sow; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.19.23" data-parsed="Luke_19_23_0_0" data-passage="Luke 19.23" id="Luke.19.23"/><sup>23</sup>then wherefore gavest thou not my money into the bank, and I at my coming should have required it with interest? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.19.24" data-parsed="Luke_19_24_0_0" data-passage="Luke 19.24" id="Luke.19.24"/><sup>24</sup>And he said unto them that stood by, Take away from him the pound, and give it unto him that hath the ten pounds. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.19.25" data-parsed="Luke_19_25_0_0" data-passage="Luke 19.25" id="Luke.19.25"/><sup>25</sup>And they said unto him, Lord, he hath ten pounds. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.19.26" data-parsed="Luke_19_26_0_0" data-passage="Luke 19.26" id="Luke.19.26"/><sup>26</sup>I say unto you, that unto every one that hath shall be given;
but from him that hath not, even that which he hath shall be taken away from him. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.19.27" data-parsed="Luke_19_27_0_0" data-passage="Luke 19.27" id="Luke.19.27"/><sup>27</sup>But these mine enemies, that would not that I should reign over them, bring hither, and slay them before me. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.19.28" data-parsed="Luke_19_28_0_0" data-passage="Luke 19.28" id="Luke.19.28"/><sup>28</sup>And when he had thus spoken, he went on before, going up to Jerusalem. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.19.29" data-parsed="Luke_19_29_0_0" data-passage="Luke 19.29" id="Luke.19.29"/><sup>29</sup>And it came to pass,
when he drew nigh unto Bethphage and Bethany, at the mount that is called Olivet, he sent two of the disciples, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.19.30" data-parsed="Luke_19_30_0_0" data-passage="Luke 19.30" id="Luke.19.30"/><sup>30</sup>saying, Go your way into the village over against <i>you</i>; in which as ye enter ye shall find a colt tied, whereon no man ever yet sat: loose him, and bring him. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.19.31" data-parsed="Luke_19_31_0_0" data-passage="Luke 19.31" id="Luke.19.31"/><sup>31</sup>And if any one ask you, Why do ye loose him? thus shall ye say, The Lord hath need of him. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.19.32" data-parsed="Luke_19_32_0_0" data-passage="Luke 19.32" id="Luke.19.32"/><sup>32</sup>And they that were sent went away, and found even as he had said unto them. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.19.33" data-parsed="Luke_19_33_0_0" data-passage="Luke 19.33" id="Luke.19.33"/><sup>33</sup>And as they were loosing the colt, the owners thereof said unto them, Why loose ye the colt? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.19.34" data-parsed="Luke_19_34_0_0" data-passage="Luke 19.34" id="Luke.19.34"/><sup>34</sup>And they said, The Lord hath need of him. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.19.35" data-parsed="Luke_19_35_0_0" data-passage="Luke 19.35" id="Luke.19.35"/><sup>35</sup>And they brought him to Jesus: and they threw their garments upon the colt, and set Jesus thereon. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.19.36" data-parsed="Luke_19_36_0_0" data-passage="Luke 19.36" id="Luke.19.36"/><sup>36</sup>And as he went, they spread their garments in the way. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.19.37" data-parsed="Luke_19_37_0_0" data-passage="Luke 19.37" id="Luke.19.37"/><sup>37</sup>And as he was now drawing nigh, <i>even</i> at the descent of the mount of Olives, the whole multitude of the disciples began to rejoice and praise God with a loud voice for all the mighty works which they had seen; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.19.38" data-parsed="Luke_19_38_0_0" data-passage="Luke 19.38" id="Luke.19.38"/><sup>38</sup>saying, Blessed <i>is</i> the King that cometh in the name of the Lord: peace in heaven, and glory in the highest. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.19.39" data-parsed="Luke_19_39_0_0" data-passage="Luke 19.39" id="Luke.19.39"/><sup>39</sup>And some of the Pharisees from the multitude said unto him, Teacher, rebuke thy disciples. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.19.40" data-parsed="Luke_19_40_0_0" data-passage="Luke 19.40" id="Luke.19.40"/><sup>40</sup>And he answered and said, I tell you that, if these shall hold their peace, the stones will cry out. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.19.41" data-parsed="Luke_19_41_0_0" data-passage="Luke 19.41" id="Luke.19.41"/><sup>41</sup>And when he drew nigh, he saw the city and wept over it, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.19.42" data-parsed="Luke_19_42_0_0" data-passage="Luke 19.42" id="Luke.19.42"/><sup>42</sup>saying, If thou hadst known in this day,
even thou, the things which belong unto peace! but now they are hid from thine eyes. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.19.43" data-parsed="Luke_19_43_0_0" data-passage="Luke 19.43" id="Luke.19.43"/><sup>43</sup>For the days shall come upon thee, when thine enemies shall cast up a bank about thee, and compass thee round, and keep thee in on every side, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.19.44" data-parsed="Luke_19_44_0_0" data-passage="Luke 19.44" id="Luke.19.44"/><sup>44</sup>and shall dash thee to the ground, and thy children within thee;
and they shall not leave in thee one stone upon another; because thou knewest not the time of thy visitation. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.19.45" data-parsed="Luke_19_45_0_0" data-passage="Luke 19.45" id="Luke.19.45"/><sup>45</sup>And he entered into the temple, and began to cast out them that sold, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.19.46" data-parsed="Luke_19_46_0_0" data-passage="Luke 19.46" id="Luke.19.46"/><sup>46</sup>saying unto them, It is written, And my house shall be a house of prayer: but ye have made it a den of robbers.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.19.47" data-parsed="Luke_19_47_0_0" data-passage="Luke 19.47" id="Luke.19.47"/><sup>47</sup>And he was teaching daily in the temple. But the chief priests and the scribes and the principal men of the people sought to destroy him: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Luke.19.48" data-parsed="Luke_19_48_0_0" data-passage="Luke 19.48" id="Luke.19.48"/><sup>48</sup>and they could not find what they might do; for the people all hung upon him,
listening.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>