<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Mark 16</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Mark 16</span></div><div data-next="Luke" data-prev="Mark.15" data-progress="82.13%" data-shorttitle="" id="Mark.16" title="Mark 16">
<h2 id="Mark.16-p0.1">16</h2>
<p id="Mark.16-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.16.1" data-parsed="Mark_16_1_0_0" data-passage="Mark 16.1" id="Mark.16.1"/><sup>1</sup>And when the sabbath was past, Mary Magdalene, and Mary the <i>mother</i> of James, and Salome, bought spices, that they might come and anoint him. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.16.2" data-parsed="Mark_16_2_0_0" data-passage="Mark 16.2" id="Mark.16.2"/><sup>2</sup>And very early on the first day of the week, they come to the tomb when the sun was risen. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.16.3" data-parsed="Mark_16_3_0_0" data-passage="Mark 16.3" id="Mark.16.3"/><sup>3</sup>And they were saying among themselves,
Who shall roll us away the stone from the door of the tomb? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.16.4" data-parsed="Mark_16_4_0_0" data-passage="Mark 16.4" id="Mark.16.4"/><sup>4</sup>and looking up, they see that the stone is rolled back: for it was exceeding great.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.16.5" data-parsed="Mark_16_5_0_0" data-passage="Mark 16.5" id="Mark.16.5"/><sup>5</sup>And entering into the tomb, they saw a young man sitting on the right side, arrayed in a white robe; and they were amazed. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.16.6" data-parsed="Mark_16_6_0_0" data-passage="Mark 16.6" id="Mark.16.6"/><sup>6</sup>And he saith unto them, Be not amazed: ye seek Jesus, the Nazarene, who hath been crucified: he is risen; he is not here: behold, the place where they laid him! 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.16.7" data-parsed="Mark_16_7_0_0" data-passage="Mark 16.7" id="Mark.16.7"/><sup>7</sup>But go,
tell his disciples and Peter, He goeth before you into Galilee: there shall ye see him, as he said unto you. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.16.8" data-parsed="Mark_16_8_0_0" data-passage="Mark 16.8" id="Mark.16.8"/><sup>8</sup>And they went out, and fled from the tomb; for trembling and astonishment had come upon them: and they said nothing to any one; for they were afraid. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.16.9" data-parsed="Mark_16_9_0_0" data-passage="Mark 16.9" id="Mark.16.9"/><sup>9</sup>Now when he was risen early on the first day of the week, he appeared first to Mary Magdalene, from whom he had cast out seven demons. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.16.10" data-parsed="Mark_16_10_0_0" data-passage="Mark 16.10" id="Mark.16.10"/><sup>10</sup>She went and told them that had been with him, as they mourned and wept. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.16.11" data-parsed="Mark_16_11_0_0" data-passage="Mark 16.11" id="Mark.16.11"/><sup>11</sup>And they, when they heard that he was alive, and had been seen of her, disbelieved. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.16.12" data-parsed="Mark_16_12_0_0" data-passage="Mark 16.12" id="Mark.16.12"/><sup>12</sup>And after these things he was manifested in another form unto two of them, as they walked, on their way into the country. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.16.13" data-parsed="Mark_16_13_0_0" data-passage="Mark 16.13" id="Mark.16.13"/><sup>13</sup>And they went away and told it unto the rest: neither believed they them. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.16.14" data-parsed="Mark_16_14_0_0" data-passage="Mark 16.14" id="Mark.16.14"/><sup>14</sup>And afterward he was manifested unto the eleven themselves as they sat at meat; and he upbraided them with their unbelief and hardness of heart, because they believed not them that had seen him after he was risen. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.16.15" data-parsed="Mark_16_15_0_0" data-passage="Mark 16.15" id="Mark.16.15"/><sup>15</sup>And he said unto them, Go ye into all the world, and preach the gospel to the whole creation. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.16.16" data-parsed="Mark_16_16_0_0" data-passage="Mark 16.16" id="Mark.16.16"/><sup>16</sup>He that believeth and is baptized shall be saved; but he that disbelieveth shall be condemned. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.16.17" data-parsed="Mark_16_17_0_0" data-passage="Mark 16.17" id="Mark.16.17"/><sup>17</sup>And these signs shall accompany them that believe: in my name shall they cast out demons; they shall speak with new tongues; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.16.18" data-parsed="Mark_16_18_0_0" data-passage="Mark 16.18" id="Mark.16.18"/><sup>18</sup>they shall take up serpents,
and if they drink any deadly thing, it shall in no wise hurt them; they shall lay hands on the sick, and they shall recover. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.16.19" data-parsed="Mark_16_19_0_0" data-passage="Mark 16.19" id="Mark.16.19"/><sup>19</sup>So then the Lord Jesus,
after he had spoken unto them, was received up into heaven, and sat down at the right hand of God. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.16.20" data-parsed="Mark_16_20_0_0" data-passage="Mark 16.20" id="Mark.16.20"/><sup>20</sup>And they went forth, and preached everywhere,
the Lord working with them, and confirming the word by the signs that followed. Amen.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>