<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Mark 10</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Mark 10</span></div><div data-next="Mark.11" data-prev="Mark.9" data-progress="81.35%" data-shorttitle="" id="Mark.10" title="Mark 10">
<h2 id="Mark.10-p0.1">10</h2>
<p id="Mark.10-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.10.1" data-parsed="Mark_10_1_0_0" data-passage="Mark 10.1" id="Mark.10.1"/><sup>1</sup>And he arose from thence and cometh into the borders of Judaea and beyond the Jordan: and multitudes come together unto him again; and, as he was wont, he taught them again. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.10.2" data-parsed="Mark_10_2_0_0" data-passage="Mark 10.2" id="Mark.10.2"/><sup>2</sup>And there came unto him Pharisees, and asked him, Is it lawful for a man to put away <i>his</i> wife? trying him.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.10.3" data-parsed="Mark_10_3_0_0" data-passage="Mark 10.3" id="Mark.10.3"/><sup>3</sup>And he answered and said unto them, What did Moses command you? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.10.4" data-parsed="Mark_10_4_0_0" data-passage="Mark 10.4" id="Mark.10.4"/><sup>4</sup>And they said, Moses suffered to write a bill of divorcement, and to put her away. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.10.5" data-parsed="Mark_10_5_0_0" data-passage="Mark 10.5" id="Mark.10.5"/><sup>5</sup>But Jesus said unto them, For your hardness of heart he wrote you this commandment. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.10.6" data-parsed="Mark_10_6_0_0" data-passage="Mark 10.6" id="Mark.10.6"/><sup>6</sup>But from the beginning of the creation, Male and female made he them. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.10.7" data-parsed="Mark_10_7_0_0" data-passage="Mark 10.7" id="Mark.10.7"/><sup>7</sup>For this cause shall a man leave his father and mother, and shall cleave to his wife; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.10.8" data-parsed="Mark_10_8_0_0" data-passage="Mark 10.8" id="Mark.10.8"/><sup>8</sup>and the two shall become one flesh: so that they are no more two, but one flesh. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.10.9" data-parsed="Mark_10_9_0_0" data-passage="Mark 10.9" id="Mark.10.9"/><sup>9</sup>What therefore God hath joined together, let not man put asunder. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.10.10" data-parsed="Mark_10_10_0_0" data-passage="Mark 10.10" id="Mark.10.10"/><sup>10</sup>And in the house the disciples asked him again of this matter. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.10.11" data-parsed="Mark_10_11_0_0" data-passage="Mark 10.11" id="Mark.10.11"/><sup>11</sup>And he saith unto them,
Whosoever shall put away his wife, and marry another, committeth adultery against her: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.10.12" data-parsed="Mark_10_12_0_0" data-passage="Mark 10.12" id="Mark.10.12"/><sup>12</sup>and if she herself shall put away her husband, and marry another, she committeth adultery. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.10.13" data-parsed="Mark_10_13_0_0" data-passage="Mark 10.13" id="Mark.10.13"/><sup>13</sup>And they were bringing unto him little children, that he should touch them: and the disciples rebuked them.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.10.14" data-parsed="Mark_10_14_0_0" data-passage="Mark 10.14" id="Mark.10.14"/><sup>14</sup>But when Jesus saw it, he was moved with indignation, and said unto them, Suffer the little children to come unto me; forbid them not: for to such belongeth the kingdom of God. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.10.15" data-parsed="Mark_10_15_0_0" data-passage="Mark 10.15" id="Mark.10.15"/><sup>15</sup>Verily I say unto you, Whosoever shall not receive the kingdom of God as a little child, he shall in no wise enter therein. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.10.16" data-parsed="Mark_10_16_0_0" data-passage="Mark 10.16" id="Mark.10.16"/><sup>16</sup>And he took them in his arms, and blessed them, laying his hands upon them. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.10.17" data-parsed="Mark_10_17_0_0" data-passage="Mark 10.17" id="Mark.10.17"/><sup>17</sup>And as he was going forth into the way, there ran one to him, and kneeled to him, and asked him, Good Teacher, what shall I do that I may inherit eternal life? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.10.18" data-parsed="Mark_10_18_0_0" data-passage="Mark 10.18" id="Mark.10.18"/><sup>18</sup>And Jesus said unto him, Why callest thou me good? none is good save one, <i>even</i> God. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.10.19" data-parsed="Mark_10_19_0_0" data-passage="Mark 10.19" id="Mark.10.19"/><sup>19</sup>Thou knowest the commandments, Do not kill, Do not commit adultery, Do not steal, Do not bear false witness, Do not defraud, Honor thy father and mother. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.10.20" data-parsed="Mark_10_20_0_0" data-passage="Mark 10.20" id="Mark.10.20"/><sup>20</sup>And he said unto him, Teacher, all these things have I observed from my youth. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.10.21" data-parsed="Mark_10_21_0_0" data-passage="Mark 10.21" id="Mark.10.21"/><sup>21</sup>And Jesus looking upon him loved him, and said unto him, One thing thou lackest:
go, sell whatsoever thou hast, and give to the poor, and thou shalt have treasure in heaven: and come, follow me. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.10.22" data-parsed="Mark_10_22_0_0" data-passage="Mark 10.22" id="Mark.10.22"/><sup>22</sup>But his countenance fell at the saying, and he went away sorrowful: for he was one that had great possessions. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.10.23" data-parsed="Mark_10_23_0_0" data-passage="Mark 10.23" id="Mark.10.23"/><sup>23</sup>And Jesus looked round about, and saith unto his disciples, How hardly shall they that have riches enter into the kingdom of God! 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.10.24" data-parsed="Mark_10_24_0_0" data-passage="Mark 10.24" id="Mark.10.24"/><sup>24</sup>And the disciples were amazed at his words. But Jesus answereth again, and saith unto them, Children, how hard is it for them that trust in riches to enter into the kingdom of God! 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.10.25" data-parsed="Mark_10_25_0_0" data-passage="Mark 10.25" id="Mark.10.25"/><sup>25</sup>It is easier for a camel to go through a needle's eye, than for a rich man to enter into the kingdom of God.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.10.26" data-parsed="Mark_10_26_0_0" data-passage="Mark 10.26" id="Mark.10.26"/><sup>26</sup>And they were astonished exceedingly, saying unto him, Then who can be saved? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.10.27" data-parsed="Mark_10_27_0_0" data-passage="Mark 10.27" id="Mark.10.27"/><sup>27</sup>Jesus looking upon them saith, With men it is impossible, but not with God: for all things are possible with God. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.10.28" data-parsed="Mark_10_28_0_0" data-passage="Mark 10.28" id="Mark.10.28"/><sup>28</sup>Peter began to say unto him, Lo, we have left all, and have followed thee. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.10.29" data-parsed="Mark_10_29_0_0" data-passage="Mark 10.29" id="Mark.10.29"/><sup>29</sup>Jesus said,
Verily I say unto you, There is no man that hath left house, or brethren, or sisters, or mother, or father, or children, or lands, for my sake, and for the gospel's sake, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.10.30" data-parsed="Mark_10_30_0_0" data-passage="Mark 10.30" id="Mark.10.30"/><sup>30</sup>but he shall receive a hundredfold now in this time,
houses, and brethren, and sisters, and mothers, and children, and lands, with persecutions; and in the world to come eternal life. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.10.31" data-parsed="Mark_10_31_0_0" data-passage="Mark 10.31" id="Mark.10.31"/><sup>31</sup>But many <i>that are</i> first shall be last; and the last first. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.10.32" data-parsed="Mark_10_32_0_0" data-passage="Mark 10.32" id="Mark.10.32"/><sup>32</sup>And they were on the way, going up to Jerusalem; and Jesus was going before them: and they were amazed; and they that followed were afraid. And he took again the twelve, and began to tell them the things that were to happen unto him,

<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.10.33" data-parsed="Mark_10_33_0_0" data-passage="Mark 10.33" id="Mark.10.33"/><sup>33</sup><i>saying</i>, Behold, we go up to Jerusalem; and the Son of man shall be delivered unto the chief priests and the scribes; and they shall condemn him to death, and shall deliver him unto the Gentiles: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.10.34" data-parsed="Mark_10_34_0_0" data-passage="Mark 10.34" id="Mark.10.34"/><sup>34</sup>and they shall mock him, and shall spit upon him, and shall scourge him, and shall kill him;
and after three days he shall rise again. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.10.35" data-parsed="Mark_10_35_0_0" data-passage="Mark 10.35" id="Mark.10.35"/><sup>35</sup>And there come near unto him James and John, the sons of Zebedee, saying unto him, Teacher, we would that thou shouldest do for us whatsoever we shall ask of thee. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.10.36" data-parsed="Mark_10_36_0_0" data-passage="Mark 10.36" id="Mark.10.36"/><sup>36</sup>And he said unto them, What would ye that I should do for you? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.10.37" data-parsed="Mark_10_37_0_0" data-passage="Mark 10.37" id="Mark.10.37"/><sup>37</sup>And they said unto him, Grant unto us that we may sit, one on thy right hand, and one on <i>thy</i> left hand, in thy glory. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.10.38" data-parsed="Mark_10_38_0_0" data-passage="Mark 10.38" id="Mark.10.38"/><sup>38</sup>But Jesus said unto them, Ye know not what ye ask. Are ye able to drink the cup that I drink? or to be baptized with the baptism that I am baptized with? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.10.39" data-parsed="Mark_10_39_0_0" data-passage="Mark 10.39" id="Mark.10.39"/><sup>39</sup>And they said unto him, We are able. And Jesus said unto them, The cup that I drink ye shall drink; and with the baptism that I am baptized withal shall ye be baptized: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.10.40" data-parsed="Mark_10_40_0_0" data-passage="Mark 10.40" id="Mark.10.40"/><sup>40</sup>but to sit on my right hand or on <i>my</i> left hand is not mine to give; but <i>it is for them</i> for whom it hath been prepared. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.10.41" data-parsed="Mark_10_41_0_0" data-passage="Mark 10.41" id="Mark.10.41"/><sup>41</sup>And when the ten heard it, they began to be moved with indignation concerning James and John.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.10.42" data-parsed="Mark_10_42_0_0" data-passage="Mark 10.42" id="Mark.10.42"/><sup>42</sup>And Jesus called them to him, and saith unto them, Ye know that they who are accounted to rule over the Gentiles lord it over them; and their great ones exercise authority over them. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.10.43" data-parsed="Mark_10_43_0_0" data-passage="Mark 10.43" id="Mark.10.43"/><sup>43</sup>But it is not so among you:
but whosoever would become great among you, shall be your minister; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.10.44" data-parsed="Mark_10_44_0_0" data-passage="Mark 10.44" id="Mark.10.44"/><sup>44</sup>and whosoever would be first among you, shall be servant of all. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.10.45" data-parsed="Mark_10_45_0_0" data-passage="Mark 10.45" id="Mark.10.45"/><sup>45</sup>For the Son of man also came not to be ministered unto, but to minister, and to give his life a ransom for many. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.10.46" data-parsed="Mark_10_46_0_0" data-passage="Mark 10.46" id="Mark.10.46"/><sup>46</sup>And they come to Jericho: and as he went out from Jericho, with his disciples and a great multitude, the son of Timaeus, Bartimaeus, a blind beggar, was sitting by the way side. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.10.47" data-parsed="Mark_10_47_0_0" data-passage="Mark 10.47" id="Mark.10.47"/><sup>47</sup>And when he heard that it was Jesus the Nazarene, he began to cry out, and say,
Jesus, thou son of David, have mercy on me. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.10.48" data-parsed="Mark_10_48_0_0" data-passage="Mark 10.48" id="Mark.10.48"/><sup>48</sup>And many rebuked him, that he should hold his peace: but he cried out the more a great deal, Thou son of David, have mercy on me. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.10.49" data-parsed="Mark_10_49_0_0" data-passage="Mark 10.49" id="Mark.10.49"/><sup>49</sup>And Jesus stood still, and said, Call ye him.
And they call the blind man, saying unto him, Be of good cheer: rise, he calleth thee. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.10.50" data-parsed="Mark_10_50_0_0" data-passage="Mark 10.50" id="Mark.10.50"/><sup>50</sup>And he, casting away his garment, sprang up, and came to Jesus. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.10.51" data-parsed="Mark_10_51_0_0" data-passage="Mark 10.51" id="Mark.10.51"/><sup>51</sup>And Jesus answered him, and said, What wilt thou that I should do unto thee? And the blind man said unto him, Rabboni, that I may receive my sight. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.10.52" data-parsed="Mark_10_52_0_0" data-passage="Mark 10.52" id="Mark.10.52"/><sup>52</sup>And Jesus said unto him, Go thy way; thy faith hath made thee whole. And straightway he received his sight, and followed him in the way.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>