<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Mark 8</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Mark 8</span></div><div data-next="Mark.9" data-prev="Mark.7" data-progress="81.10%" data-shorttitle="" id="Mark.8" title="Mark 8">
<h2 id="Mark.8-p0.1">8</h2>
<p id="Mark.8-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.8.1" data-parsed="Mark_8_1_0_0" data-passage="Mark 8.1" id="Mark.8.1"/><sup>1</sup>In those days, when there was again a great multitude, and they had nothing to eat, he called unto him his disciples, and saith unto them, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.8.2" data-parsed="Mark_8_2_0_0" data-passage="Mark 8.2" id="Mark.8.2"/><sup>2</sup>I have compassion on the multitude, because they continue with me now three days, and have nothing to eat: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.8.3" data-parsed="Mark_8_3_0_0" data-passage="Mark 8.3" id="Mark.8.3"/><sup>3</sup>and if I send them away fasting to their home, they will faint on the way; and some of them are come from far.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.8.4" data-parsed="Mark_8_4_0_0" data-passage="Mark 8.4" id="Mark.8.4"/><sup>4</sup>And his disciples answered him, Whence shall one be able to fill these men with bread here in a desert place? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.8.5" data-parsed="Mark_8_5_0_0" data-passage="Mark 8.5" id="Mark.8.5"/><sup>5</sup>And he asked them, How many loaves have ye? And they said, Seven. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.8.6" data-parsed="Mark_8_6_0_0" data-passage="Mark 8.6" id="Mark.8.6"/><sup>6</sup>And he commandeth the multitude to sit down on the ground: and he took the seven loaves, and having given thanks, he brake, and gave to his disciples, to set before them; and they set them before the multitude. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.8.7" data-parsed="Mark_8_7_0_0" data-passage="Mark 8.7" id="Mark.8.7"/><sup>7</sup>And they had a few small fishes: and having blessed them, he commanded to set these also before them. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.8.8" data-parsed="Mark_8_8_0_0" data-passage="Mark 8.8" id="Mark.8.8"/><sup>8</sup>And they ate,
and were filled: and they took up, of broken pieces that remained over, seven baskets. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.8.9" data-parsed="Mark_8_9_0_0" data-passage="Mark 8.9" id="Mark.8.9"/><sup>9</sup>And they were about four thousand: and he sent them away.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.8.10" data-parsed="Mark_8_10_0_0" data-passage="Mark 8.10" id="Mark.8.10"/><sup>10</sup>And straightway he entered into the boat with his disciples, and came into the parts of Dalmanutha. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.8.11" data-parsed="Mark_8_11_0_0" data-passage="Mark 8.11" id="Mark.8.11"/><sup>11</sup>And the Pharisees came forth, and began to question with him, seeking of him a sign from heaven, trying him.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.8.12" data-parsed="Mark_8_12_0_0" data-passage="Mark 8.12" id="Mark.8.12"/><sup>12</sup>And he sighed deeply in his spirit, and saith, Why doth this generation seek a sign? verily I say unto you, There shall no sign be given unto this generation. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.8.13" data-parsed="Mark_8_13_0_0" data-passage="Mark 8.13" id="Mark.8.13"/><sup>13</sup>And he left them, and again entering into <i>the boat</i>
departed to the other side. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.8.14" data-parsed="Mark_8_14_0_0" data-passage="Mark 8.14" id="Mark.8.14"/><sup>14</sup>And they forgot to take bread; and they had not in the boat with them more than one loaf. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.8.15" data-parsed="Mark_8_15_0_0" data-passage="Mark 8.15" id="Mark.8.15"/><sup>15</sup>And he charged them,
saying, Take heed, beware of the leaven of the Pharisees and the leaven of Herod. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.8.16" data-parsed="Mark_8_16_0_0" data-passage="Mark 8.16" id="Mark.8.16"/><sup>16</sup>And they reasoned one with another, saying, We have no bread.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.8.17" data-parsed="Mark_8_17_0_0" data-passage="Mark 8.17" id="Mark.8.17"/><sup>17</sup>And Jesus perceiving it saith unto them, Why reason ye, because ye have no bread? do ye not yet perceive, neither understand? have ye your heart hardened? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.8.18" data-parsed="Mark_8_18_0_0" data-passage="Mark 8.18" id="Mark.8.18"/><sup>18</sup>Having eyes, see ye not? and having ears, hear ye not? and do ye not remember? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.8.19" data-parsed="Mark_8_19_0_0" data-passage="Mark 8.19" id="Mark.8.19"/><sup>19</sup>When I brake the five loaves among the five thousand,
how many baskets full of broken pieces took ye up? They say unto him, Twelve.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.8.20" data-parsed="Mark_8_20_0_0" data-passage="Mark 8.20" id="Mark.8.20"/><sup>20</sup>And when the seven among the four thousand, how many basketfuls of broken pieces took ye up? And they say unto him, Seven. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.8.21" data-parsed="Mark_8_21_0_0" data-passage="Mark 8.21" id="Mark.8.21"/><sup>21</sup>And he said unto them, Do ye not yet understand? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.8.22" data-parsed="Mark_8_22_0_0" data-passage="Mark 8.22" id="Mark.8.22"/><sup>22</sup>And they come unto Bethsaida. And they bring to him a blind man, and beseech him to touch him. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.8.23" data-parsed="Mark_8_23_0_0" data-passage="Mark 8.23" id="Mark.8.23"/><sup>23</sup>And he took hold of the blind man by the hand, and brought him out of the village;
and when he had spit on his eyes, and laid his hands upon him, he asked him,
Seest thou aught? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.8.24" data-parsed="Mark_8_24_0_0" data-passage="Mark 8.24" id="Mark.8.24"/><sup>24</sup>And he looked up, and said, I see men; for I behold <i>them</i> as trees, walking. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.8.25" data-parsed="Mark_8_25_0_0" data-passage="Mark 8.25" id="Mark.8.25"/><sup>25</sup>Then again he laid his hands upon his eyes; and he looked stedfastly, and was restored, and saw all things clearly.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.8.26" data-parsed="Mark_8_26_0_0" data-passage="Mark 8.26" id="Mark.8.26"/><sup>26</sup>And he sent him away to his home, saying, Do not even enter into the village. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.8.27" data-parsed="Mark_8_27_0_0" data-passage="Mark 8.27" id="Mark.8.27"/><sup>27</sup>And Jesus went forth, and his disciples, into the villages of Caesarea Philippi: and on the way he asked his disciples, saying unto them,
Who do men say that I am? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.8.28" data-parsed="Mark_8_28_0_0" data-passage="Mark 8.28" id="Mark.8.28"/><sup>28</sup>And they told him, saying, John the Baptist;
and others, Elijah; but others, One of the prophets. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.8.29" data-parsed="Mark_8_29_0_0" data-passage="Mark 8.29" id="Mark.8.29"/><sup>29</sup>And he asked them,
But who say ye that I am? Peter answereth and saith unto him, Thou art the Christ. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.8.30" data-parsed="Mark_8_30_0_0" data-passage="Mark 8.30" id="Mark.8.30"/><sup>30</sup>And he charged them that they should tell no man of him.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.8.31" data-parsed="Mark_8_31_0_0" data-passage="Mark 8.31" id="Mark.8.31"/><sup>31</sup>And he began to teach them, that the Son of man must suffer many things, and be rejected by the elders, and the chief priests, and the scribes, and be killed, and after three days rise again. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.8.32" data-parsed="Mark_8_32_0_0" data-passage="Mark 8.32" id="Mark.8.32"/><sup>32</sup>And he spake the saying openly. And Peter took him, and began to rebuke him. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.8.33" data-parsed="Mark_8_33_0_0" data-passage="Mark 8.33" id="Mark.8.33"/><sup>33</sup>But he turning about, and seeing his disciples, rebuked Peter, and saith, Get thee behind me, Satan; for thou mindest not the things of God, but the things of men. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.8.34" data-parsed="Mark_8_34_0_0" data-passage="Mark 8.34" id="Mark.8.34"/><sup>34</sup>And he called unto him the multitude with his disciples, and said unto them, If any man would come after me, let him deny himself, and take up his cross, and follow me. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.8.35" data-parsed="Mark_8_35_0_0" data-passage="Mark 8.35" id="Mark.8.35"/><sup>35</sup>For whosoever would save his life shall lose it; and whosoever shall lose his life for my sake and the gospel's shall save it. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.8.36" data-parsed="Mark_8_36_0_0" data-passage="Mark 8.36" id="Mark.8.36"/><sup>36</sup>For what doth it profit a man, to gain the whole world, and forfeit his life? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.8.37" data-parsed="Mark_8_37_0_0" data-passage="Mark 8.37" id="Mark.8.37"/><sup>37</sup>For what should a man give in exchange for his life?

<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.8.38" data-parsed="Mark_8_38_0_0" data-passage="Mark 8.38" id="Mark.8.38"/><sup>38</sup>For whosoever shall be ashamed of me and of my words in this adulterous and sinful generation, the Son of man also shall be ashamed of him, when he cometh in the glory of his Father with the holy angels.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>