<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Mark 3</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Mark 3</span></div><div data-next="Mark.4" data-prev="Mark.2" data-progress="80.53%" data-shorttitle="" id="Mark.3" title="Mark 3">
<h2 id="Mark.3-p0.1">3</h2>
<p id="Mark.3-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.3.1" data-parsed="Mark_3_1_0_0" data-passage="Mark 3.1" id="Mark.3.1"/><sup>1</sup>And he entered again into the synagogue; and there was a man there who had his hand withered. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.3.2" data-parsed="Mark_3_2_0_0" data-passage="Mark 3.2" id="Mark.3.2"/><sup>2</sup>And they watched him, whether he would heal him on the sabbath day; that they might accuse him. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.3.3" data-parsed="Mark_3_3_0_0" data-passage="Mark 3.3" id="Mark.3.3"/><sup>3</sup>And he saith unto the man that had his hand withered, Stand forth. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.3.4" data-parsed="Mark_3_4_0_0" data-passage="Mark 3.4" id="Mark.3.4"/><sup>4</sup>And he saith unto them,
Is it lawful on the sabbath day to do good, or to do harm? to save a life, or to kill? But they held their peace. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.3.5" data-parsed="Mark_3_5_0_0" data-passage="Mark 3.5" id="Mark.3.5"/><sup>5</sup>And when he had looked round about on them with anger, being grieved at the hardening of their heart, he saith unto the man, Stretch forth thy hand. And he stretched it forth; and his hand was restored. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.3.6" data-parsed="Mark_3_6_0_0" data-passage="Mark 3.6" id="Mark.3.6"/><sup>6</sup>And the Pharisees went out, and straightway with the Herodians took counsel against him, how they might destroy him. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.3.7" data-parsed="Mark_3_7_0_0" data-passage="Mark 3.7" id="Mark.3.7"/><sup>7</sup>And Jesus with his disciples withdrew to the sea: and a great multitude from Galilee followed; and from Judaea, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.3.8" data-parsed="Mark_3_8_0_0" data-passage="Mark 3.8" id="Mark.3.8"/><sup>8</sup>and from Jerusalem, and from Idumaea,
and beyond the Jordan, and about Tyre and Sidon, a great multitude, hearing what great things he did, came unto him. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.3.9" data-parsed="Mark_3_9_0_0" data-passage="Mark 3.9" id="Mark.3.9"/><sup>9</sup>And he spake to his disciples,
that a little boat should wait on him because of the crowd, lest they should throng him: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.3.10" data-parsed="Mark_3_10_0_0" data-passage="Mark 3.10" id="Mark.3.10"/><sup>10</sup>for he had healed many; insomuch that as many as had plagues pressed upon him that they might touch him. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.3.11" data-parsed="Mark_3_11_0_0" data-passage="Mark 3.11" id="Mark.3.11"/><sup>11</sup>And the unclean spirits, whensoever they beheld him, fell down before him, and cried, saying,
Thou art the Son of God. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.3.12" data-parsed="Mark_3_12_0_0" data-passage="Mark 3.12" id="Mark.3.12"/><sup>12</sup>And he charged them much that they should not make him known. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.3.13" data-parsed="Mark_3_13_0_0" data-passage="Mark 3.13" id="Mark.3.13"/><sup>13</sup>And he goeth up into the mountain, and calleth unto him whom he himself would; and they went unto him. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.3.14" data-parsed="Mark_3_14_0_0" data-passage="Mark 3.14" id="Mark.3.14"/><sup>14</sup>And he appointed twelve,
that they might be with him, and that he might send them forth to preach,

<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.3.15" data-parsed="Mark_3_15_0_0" data-passage="Mark 3.15" id="Mark.3.15"/><sup>15</sup>and to have authority to cast out demons: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.3.16" data-parsed="Mark_3_16_0_0" data-passage="Mark 3.16" id="Mark.3.16"/><sup>16</sup>and Simon he surnamed Peter; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.3.17" data-parsed="Mark_3_17_0_0" data-passage="Mark 3.17" id="Mark.3.17"/><sup>17</sup>and James the <i>son</i> of Zebedee, and John the brother of James; and them he surnamed Boanerges, which is, Sons of thunder: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.3.18" data-parsed="Mark_3_18_0_0" data-passage="Mark 3.18" id="Mark.3.18"/><sup>18</sup>and Andrew, and Philip, and Bartholomew, and Matthew, and Thomas, and James the <i>son</i> of Alphaeus, and Thaddaeus, and Simon the Cananaean, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.3.19" data-parsed="Mark_3_19_0_0" data-passage="Mark 3.19" id="Mark.3.19"/><sup>19</sup>and Judas Iscariot, who also betrayed him. And he cometh into a house. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.3.20" data-parsed="Mark_3_20_0_0" data-passage="Mark 3.20" id="Mark.3.20"/><sup>20</sup>And the multitude cometh together again, so that they could not so much as eat bread. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.3.21" data-parsed="Mark_3_21_0_0" data-passage="Mark 3.21" id="Mark.3.21"/><sup>21</sup>And when his friends heard it, they went out to lay hold on him:
for they said, He is beside himself. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.3.22" data-parsed="Mark_3_22_0_0" data-passage="Mark 3.22" id="Mark.3.22"/><sup>22</sup>And the scribes that came down from Jerusalem said, He hath Beelzebub, and, By the prince of the demons casteth he out the demons. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.3.23" data-parsed="Mark_3_23_0_0" data-passage="Mark 3.23" id="Mark.3.23"/><sup>23</sup>And he called them unto him, and said unto them in parables, How can Satan cast out Satan? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.3.24" data-parsed="Mark_3_24_0_0" data-passage="Mark 3.24" id="Mark.3.24"/><sup>24</sup>And if a kingdom be divided against itself, that kingdom cannot stand. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.3.25" data-parsed="Mark_3_25_0_0" data-passage="Mark 3.25" id="Mark.3.25"/><sup>25</sup>And if a house be divided against itself, that house will not be able to stand. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.3.26" data-parsed="Mark_3_26_0_0" data-passage="Mark 3.26" id="Mark.3.26"/><sup>26</sup>And if Satan hath rise up against himself, and is divided, he cannot stand, but hath an end. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.3.27" data-parsed="Mark_3_27_0_0" data-passage="Mark 3.27" id="Mark.3.27"/><sup>27</sup>But no one can enter into the house of the strong <i>man</i>,
and spoil his goods, except he first bind the strong <i>man</i>; and then he will spoil his house. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.3.28" data-parsed="Mark_3_28_0_0" data-passage="Mark 3.28" id="Mark.3.28"/><sup>28</sup>Verily I say unto you, All their sins shall be forgiven unto the sons of men, and their blasphemies wherewith soever they shall blaspheme: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.3.29" data-parsed="Mark_3_29_0_0" data-passage="Mark 3.29" id="Mark.3.29"/><sup>29</sup>but whosoever shall blaspheme against the Holy Spirit hath never forgiveness, but is guilty of an eternal sin: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.3.30" data-parsed="Mark_3_30_0_0" data-passage="Mark 3.30" id="Mark.3.30"/><sup>30</sup>because they said, He hath an unclean spirit. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.3.31" data-parsed="Mark_3_31_0_0" data-passage="Mark 3.31" id="Mark.3.31"/><sup>31</sup>And there come his mother and his brethren; and, standing without, they sent unto him, calling him. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.3.32" data-parsed="Mark_3_32_0_0" data-passage="Mark 3.32" id="Mark.3.32"/><sup>32</sup>And a multitude was sitting about him; and they say unto him, Behold, thy mother and thy brethren without seek for thee. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.3.33" data-parsed="Mark_3_33_0_0" data-passage="Mark 3.33" id="Mark.3.33"/><sup>33</sup>And he answereth them, and saith, Who is my mother and my brethren? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.3.34" data-parsed="Mark_3_34_0_0" data-passage="Mark 3.34" id="Mark.3.34"/><sup>34</sup>And looking round on them that sat round about him, he saith, Behold, my mother and my brethren! 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.3.35" data-parsed="Mark_3_35_0_0" data-passage="Mark 3.35" id="Mark.3.35"/><sup>35</sup>For whosoever shall do the will of God, the same is my brother, and sister, and mother.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>