<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Mark 15</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Mark 15</span></div><div data-next="Mark.16" data-prev="Mark.14" data-progress="82.01%" data-shorttitle="" id="Mark.15" title="Mark 15">
<h2 id="Mark.15-p0.1">15</h2>
<p id="Mark.15-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.15.1" data-parsed="Mark_15_1_0_0" data-passage="Mark 15.1" id="Mark.15.1"/><sup>1</sup>And straightway in the morning the chief priests with the elders and scribes, and the whole council, held a consultation, and bound Jesus, and carried him away, and delivered him up to Pilate. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.15.2" data-parsed="Mark_15_2_0_0" data-passage="Mark 15.2" id="Mark.15.2"/><sup>2</sup>And Pilate asked him,
Art thou the King of the Jews? And he answering saith unto him, Thou sayest.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.15.3" data-parsed="Mark_15_3_0_0" data-passage="Mark 15.3" id="Mark.15.3"/><sup>3</sup>And the chief priests accused him of many things. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.15.4" data-parsed="Mark_15_4_0_0" data-passage="Mark 15.4" id="Mark.15.4"/><sup>4</sup>And Pilate again asked him, saying, Answerest thou nothing? behold how many things they accuse thee of. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.15.5" data-parsed="Mark_15_5_0_0" data-passage="Mark 15.5" id="Mark.15.5"/><sup>5</sup>But Jesus no more answered anything; insomuch that Pilate marvelled. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.15.6" data-parsed="Mark_15_6_0_0" data-passage="Mark 15.6" id="Mark.15.6"/><sup>6</sup>Now at the feast he used to release unto them one prisoner,
whom they asked of him. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.15.7" data-parsed="Mark_15_7_0_0" data-passage="Mark 15.7" id="Mark.15.7"/><sup>7</sup>And there was one called Barabbas, <i>lying</i>
bound with them that had made insurrection, men who in the insurrection had committed murder. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.15.8" data-parsed="Mark_15_8_0_0" data-passage="Mark 15.8" id="Mark.15.8"/><sup>8</sup>And the multitude went up and began to ask him <i>to do</i> as he was wont to do unto them. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.15.9" data-parsed="Mark_15_9_0_0" data-passage="Mark 15.9" id="Mark.15.9"/><sup>9</sup>And Pilate answered them, saying,
Will ye that I release unto you the King of the Jews? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.15.10" data-parsed="Mark_15_10_0_0" data-passage="Mark 15.10" id="Mark.15.10"/><sup>10</sup>For he perceived that for envy the chief priests had delivered him up. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.15.11" data-parsed="Mark_15_11_0_0" data-passage="Mark 15.11" id="Mark.15.11"/><sup>11</sup>But the chief priests stirred up the multitude, that he should rather release Barabbas unto them. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.15.12" data-parsed="Mark_15_12_0_0" data-passage="Mark 15.12" id="Mark.15.12"/><sup>12</sup>And Pilate again answered and said unto them, What then shall I do unto him whom ye call the King of the Jews? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.15.13" data-parsed="Mark_15_13_0_0" data-passage="Mark 15.13" id="Mark.15.13"/><sup>13</sup>And they cried out again, Crucify him. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.15.14" data-parsed="Mark_15_14_0_0" data-passage="Mark 15.14" id="Mark.15.14"/><sup>14</sup>And Pilate said unto them, Why, what evil hath he done? But they cried out exceedingly, Crucify him. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.15.15" data-parsed="Mark_15_15_0_0" data-passage="Mark 15.15" id="Mark.15.15"/><sup>15</sup>And Pilate, wishing to content the multitude, released unto them Barabbas, and delivered Jesus,
when he had scourged him, to be crucified. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.15.16" data-parsed="Mark_15_16_0_0" data-passage="Mark 15.16" id="Mark.15.16"/><sup>16</sup>And the soldiers led him away within the court, which is the Praetorium; and they call together the whole band. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.15.17" data-parsed="Mark_15_17_0_0" data-passage="Mark 15.17" id="Mark.15.17"/><sup>17</sup>And they clothe him with purple, and platting a crown of thorns, they put it on him; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.15.18" data-parsed="Mark_15_18_0_0" data-passage="Mark 15.18" id="Mark.15.18"/><sup>18</sup>and they began to salute him, Hail, King of the Jews! 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.15.19" data-parsed="Mark_15_19_0_0" data-passage="Mark 15.19" id="Mark.15.19"/><sup>19</sup>And they smote his head with a reed, and spat upon him, and bowing their knees worshipped him. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.15.20" data-parsed="Mark_15_20_0_0" data-passage="Mark 15.20" id="Mark.15.20"/><sup>20</sup>And when they had mocked him, they took off from him the purple, and put on him his garments. And they lead him out to crucify him. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.15.21" data-parsed="Mark_15_21_0_0" data-passage="Mark 15.21" id="Mark.15.21"/><sup>21</sup>And they compel one passing by, Simon of Cyrene,
coming from the country, the father of Alexander and Rufus, to go <i>with them</i>, that he might bear his cross. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.15.22" data-parsed="Mark_15_22_0_0" data-passage="Mark 15.22" id="Mark.15.22"/><sup>22</sup>And they bring him unto the place Golgotha, which is, being interpreted, The place of a skull. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.15.23" data-parsed="Mark_15_23_0_0" data-passage="Mark 15.23" id="Mark.15.23"/><sup>23</sup>And they offered him wine mingled with myrrh: but he received it not. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.15.24" data-parsed="Mark_15_24_0_0" data-passage="Mark 15.24" id="Mark.15.24"/><sup>24</sup>And they crucify him, and part his garments among them, casting lots upon them,
what each should take. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.15.25" data-parsed="Mark_15_25_0_0" data-passage="Mark 15.25" id="Mark.15.25"/><sup>25</sup>And it was the third hour, and they crucified him. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.15.26" data-parsed="Mark_15_26_0_0" data-passage="Mark 15.26" id="Mark.15.26"/><sup>26</sup>And the superscription of his accusation was written over, THE KING OF THE JEWS. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.15.27" data-parsed="Mark_15_27_0_0" data-passage="Mark 15.27" id="Mark.15.27"/><sup>27</sup>And with him they crucify two robbers; one on his right hand, and one on his left. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.15.28" data-parsed="Mark_15_28_0_0" data-passage="Mark 15.28" id="Mark.15.28"/><sup>28</sup><i>And the span was fulfilled,
which saith, And he was reckoned with transgressors.</i>
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.15.29" data-parsed="Mark_15_29_0_0" data-passage="Mark 15.29" id="Mark.15.29"/><sup>29</sup>And they that passed by railed on him, wagging their heads, and saying, Ha! Thou that destroyest the temple, and buildest it in three days, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.15.30" data-parsed="Mark_15_30_0_0" data-passage="Mark 15.30" id="Mark.15.30"/><sup>30</sup>save thyself, and come down from the cross. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.15.31" data-parsed="Mark_15_31_0_0" data-passage="Mark 15.31" id="Mark.15.31"/><sup>31</sup>In like manner also the chief priests mocking <i>him</i> among themselves with the scribes said, He saved others; himself he cannot save. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.15.32" data-parsed="Mark_15_32_0_0" data-passage="Mark 15.32" id="Mark.15.32"/><sup>32</sup>Let the Christ, the King of Israel, now come down from the cross, that we may see and believe. And they that were crucified with him reproached him. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.15.33" data-parsed="Mark_15_33_0_0" data-passage="Mark 15.33" id="Mark.15.33"/><sup>33</sup>And when the sixth hour was come, there was darkness over the whole land until the ninth hour. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.15.34" data-parsed="Mark_15_34_0_0" data-passage="Mark 15.34" id="Mark.15.34"/><sup>34</sup>And at the ninth hour Jesus cried with a loud voice, Eloi, Eloi, lama sabachthani? which is, being interpreted, My God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.15.35" data-parsed="Mark_15_35_0_0" data-passage="Mark 15.35" id="Mark.15.35"/><sup>35</sup>And some of them that stood by, when they heard it, said, Behold, he calleth Elijah.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.15.36" data-parsed="Mark_15_36_0_0" data-passage="Mark 15.36" id="Mark.15.36"/><sup>36</sup>And one ran, and filling a sponge full of vinegar, put it on a reed,
and gave him to drink, saying, Let be; let us see whether Elijah cometh to take him down. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.15.37" data-parsed="Mark_15_37_0_0" data-passage="Mark 15.37" id="Mark.15.37"/><sup>37</sup>And Jesus uttered a loud voice, and gave up the ghost.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.15.38" data-parsed="Mark_15_38_0_0" data-passage="Mark 15.38" id="Mark.15.38"/><sup>38</sup>And the veil of the temple was rent in two from the top to the bottom.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.15.39" data-parsed="Mark_15_39_0_0" data-passage="Mark 15.39" id="Mark.15.39"/><sup>39</sup>And when the centurion, who stood by over against him, saw that he so gave up the ghost, he said, Truly this man was the Son of God. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.15.40" data-parsed="Mark_15_40_0_0" data-passage="Mark 15.40" id="Mark.15.40"/><sup>40</sup>And there were also women beholding from afar: among whom <i>were</i> both Mary Magdalene, and Mary the mother of James the less and of Joses, and Salome;

<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.15.41" data-parsed="Mark_15_41_0_0" data-passage="Mark 15.41" id="Mark.15.41"/><sup>41</sup>who, when he was in Galilee, followed him, and ministered unto him; and many other women that came up with him unto Jerusalem. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.15.42" data-parsed="Mark_15_42_0_0" data-passage="Mark 15.42" id="Mark.15.42"/><sup>42</sup>And when even was now come, because it was the Preparation, that is, the day before the sabbath, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.15.43" data-parsed="Mark_15_43_0_0" data-passage="Mark 15.43" id="Mark.15.43"/><sup>43</sup>there came Joseph of Arimathaea, a councillor of honorable estate, who also himself was looking for the kingdom of God; and he boldly went in unto Pilate, and asked for the body of Jesus. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.15.44" data-parsed="Mark_15_44_0_0" data-passage="Mark 15.44" id="Mark.15.44"/><sup>44</sup>And Pilate marvelled if he were already dead: and calling unto him the centurion, he asked him whether he had been any while dead. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.15.45" data-parsed="Mark_15_45_0_0" data-passage="Mark 15.45" id="Mark.15.45"/><sup>45</sup>And when he learned it of the centurion, he granted the corpse to Joseph. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.15.46" data-parsed="Mark_15_46_0_0" data-passage="Mark 15.46" id="Mark.15.46"/><sup>46</sup>And he bought a linen cloth, and taking him down, wound him in the linen cloth, and laid him in a tomb which had been hewn out of a rock; and he rolled a stone against the door of the tomb. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.15.47" data-parsed="Mark_15_47_0_0" data-passage="Mark 15.47" id="Mark.15.47"/><sup>47</sup>And Mary Magdalene and Mary the <i>mother</i> of Joses beheld where he was laid.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>