<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Mark 4</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Mark 4</span></div><div data-next="Mark.5" data-prev="Mark.3" data-progress="80.62%" data-shorttitle="" id="Mark.4" title="Mark 4">
<h2 id="Mark.4-p0.1">4</h2>
<p id="Mark.4-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.4.1" data-parsed="Mark_4_1_0_0" data-passage="Mark 4.1" id="Mark.4.1"/><sup>1</sup>And again he began to teach by the sea side. And there is gathered unto him a very great multitude, so that he entered into a boat, and sat in the sea; and all the multitude were by the sea on the land. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.4.2" data-parsed="Mark_4_2_0_0" data-passage="Mark 4.2" id="Mark.4.2"/><sup>2</sup>And he taught them many things in parables, and said unto them in his teaching,

<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.4.3" data-parsed="Mark_4_3_0_0" data-passage="Mark 4.3" id="Mark.4.3"/><sup>3</sup>Hearken: Behold, the sower went forth to sow: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.4.4" data-parsed="Mark_4_4_0_0" data-passage="Mark 4.4" id="Mark.4.4"/><sup>4</sup>and it came to pass,
as he sowed, some <i>seed</i> fell by the way side, and the birds came and devoured it. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.4.5" data-parsed="Mark_4_5_0_0" data-passage="Mark 4.5" id="Mark.4.5"/><sup>5</sup>And other fell on the rocky <i>ground</i>, where it had not much earth; and straightway it sprang up, because it had no deepness of earth: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.4.6" data-parsed="Mark_4_6_0_0" data-passage="Mark 4.6" id="Mark.4.6"/><sup>6</sup>and when the sun was risen, it was scorched; and because it had no root, it withered away. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.4.7" data-parsed="Mark_4_7_0_0" data-passage="Mark 4.7" id="Mark.4.7"/><sup>7</sup>And other fell among the thorns, and the thorns grew up, and choked it, and it yielded no fruit. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.4.8" data-parsed="Mark_4_8_0_0" data-passage="Mark 4.8" id="Mark.4.8"/><sup>8</sup>And others fell into the good ground, and yielded fruit, growing up and increasing; and brought forth, thirtyfold, and sixtyfold, and a hundredfold. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.4.9" data-parsed="Mark_4_9_0_0" data-passage="Mark 4.9" id="Mark.4.9"/><sup>9</sup>And he said, Who hath ears to hear, let him hear. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.4.10" data-parsed="Mark_4_10_0_0" data-passage="Mark 4.10" id="Mark.4.10"/><sup>10</sup>And when he was alone, they that were about him with the twelve asked of him the parables. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.4.11" data-parsed="Mark_4_11_0_0" data-passage="Mark 4.11" id="Mark.4.11"/><sup>11</sup>And he said unto them, Unto you is given the mystery of the kingdom of God: but unto them that are without, all things are done in parables: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.4.12" data-parsed="Mark_4_12_0_0" data-passage="Mark 4.12" id="Mark.4.12"/><sup>12</sup>that seeing they may see, and not perceive; and hearing they may hear, and not understand; lest haply they should turn again, and it should be forgiven them. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.4.13" data-parsed="Mark_4_13_0_0" data-passage="Mark 4.13" id="Mark.4.13"/><sup>13</sup>And he saith unto them, Know ye not this parable? and how shall ye know all the parables? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.4.14" data-parsed="Mark_4_14_0_0" data-passage="Mark 4.14" id="Mark.4.14"/><sup>14</sup>The sower soweth the word. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.4.15" data-parsed="Mark_4_15_0_0" data-passage="Mark 4.15" id="Mark.4.15"/><sup>15</sup>And these are they by the way side, where the word is sown; and when they have heard,
straightway cometh Satan, and taketh away the word which hath been sown in them. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.4.16" data-parsed="Mark_4_16_0_0" data-passage="Mark 4.16" id="Mark.4.16"/><sup>16</sup>And these in like manner are they that are sown upon the rocky <i>places</i>, who, when they have heard the word, straightway receive it with joy; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.4.17" data-parsed="Mark_4_17_0_0" data-passage="Mark 4.17" id="Mark.4.17"/><sup>17</sup>and they have no root in themselves, but endure for a while;
then, when tribulation or persecution ariseth because of the word,
straightway they stumble. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.4.18" data-parsed="Mark_4_18_0_0" data-passage="Mark 4.18" id="Mark.4.18"/><sup>18</sup>And others are they that are sown among the thorns; these are they that have heard the word, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.4.19" data-parsed="Mark_4_19_0_0" data-passage="Mark 4.19" id="Mark.4.19"/><sup>19</sup>and the cares of the world, and the deceitfulness of riches, and the lusts of other things entering in, choke the word, and it becometh unfruitful. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.4.20" data-parsed="Mark_4_20_0_0" data-passage="Mark 4.20" id="Mark.4.20"/><sup>20</sup>And those are they that were sown upon the good ground; such as hear the word, and accept it, and bear fruit, thirtyfold, and sixtyfold, and a hundredfold. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.4.21" data-parsed="Mark_4_21_0_0" data-passage="Mark 4.21" id="Mark.4.21"/><sup>21</sup>And he said unto them, Is the lamp brought to be put under the bushel, or under the bed, <i>and</i> not to be put on the stand? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.4.22" data-parsed="Mark_4_22_0_0" data-passage="Mark 4.22" id="Mark.4.22"/><sup>22</sup>For there is nothing hid, save that it should be manifested; neither was <i>anything</i> made secret, but that it should come to light. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.4.23" data-parsed="Mark_4_23_0_0" data-passage="Mark 4.23" id="Mark.4.23"/><sup>23</sup>If any man hath ears to hear,
let him hear. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.4.24" data-parsed="Mark_4_24_0_0" data-passage="Mark 4.24" id="Mark.4.24"/><sup>24</sup>And he said unto them, Take heed what ye hear: with what measure ye mete it shall be measured unto you; and more shall be given unto you. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.4.25" data-parsed="Mark_4_25_0_0" data-passage="Mark 4.25" id="Mark.4.25"/><sup>25</sup>For he that hath, to him shall be given: and he that hath not,
from him shall be taken away even that which he hath. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.4.26" data-parsed="Mark_4_26_0_0" data-passage="Mark 4.26" id="Mark.4.26"/><sup>26</sup>And he said, So is the kingdom of God, as if a man should cast seed upon the earth; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.4.27" data-parsed="Mark_4_27_0_0" data-passage="Mark 4.27" id="Mark.4.27"/><sup>27</sup>and should sleep and rise night and day, and the seed should spring up and grow,
he knoweth not how. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.4.28" data-parsed="Mark_4_28_0_0" data-passage="Mark 4.28" id="Mark.4.28"/><sup>28</sup>The earth beareth fruit of herself; first the blade, then the ear, then the full grain in the ear. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.4.29" data-parsed="Mark_4_29_0_0" data-passage="Mark 4.29" id="Mark.4.29"/><sup>29</sup>But when the fruit is ripe, straightway he putteth forth the sickle, because the harvest is come. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.4.30" data-parsed="Mark_4_30_0_0" data-passage="Mark 4.30" id="Mark.4.30"/><sup>30</sup>And he said, How shall we liken the kingdom of God? or in what parable shall we set it forth? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.4.31" data-parsed="Mark_4_31_0_0" data-passage="Mark 4.31" id="Mark.4.31"/><sup>31</sup>It is like a grain of mustard seed,
which, when it is sown upon the earth, though it be less than all the seeds that are upon the earth, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.4.32" data-parsed="Mark_4_32_0_0" data-passage="Mark 4.32" id="Mark.4.32"/><sup>32</sup>yet when it is sown, groweth up, and becometh greater than all the herbs, and putteth out great branches; so that the birds of the heaven can lodge under the shadow thereof. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.4.33" data-parsed="Mark_4_33_0_0" data-passage="Mark 4.33" id="Mark.4.33"/><sup>33</sup>And with many such parables spake he the word unto them, as they were able to hear it; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.4.34" data-parsed="Mark_4_34_0_0" data-passage="Mark 4.34" id="Mark.4.34"/><sup>34</sup>and without a parable spake he not unto them: but privately to his own disciples he expounded all things. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.4.35" data-parsed="Mark_4_35_0_0" data-passage="Mark 4.35" id="Mark.4.35"/><sup>35</sup>And on that day, when even was come, he saith unto them, Let us go over unto the other side. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.4.36" data-parsed="Mark_4_36_0_0" data-passage="Mark 4.36" id="Mark.4.36"/><sup>36</sup>And leaving the multitude, they take him with them, even as he was, in the boat. And other boats were with him. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.4.37" data-parsed="Mark_4_37_0_0" data-passage="Mark 4.37" id="Mark.4.37"/><sup>37</sup>And there ariseth a great storm of wind, and the waves beat into the boat, insomuch that the boat was now filling. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.4.38" data-parsed="Mark_4_38_0_0" data-passage="Mark 4.38" id="Mark.4.38"/><sup>38</sup>And he himself was in the stern, asleep on the cushion: and they awake him, and say unto him, Teacher, carest thou not that we perish? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.4.39" data-parsed="Mark_4_39_0_0" data-passage="Mark 4.39" id="Mark.4.39"/><sup>39</sup>And he awoke,
and rebuked the wind, and said unto the sea, Peace, be still. And the wind ceased, and there was a great calm. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.4.40" data-parsed="Mark_4_40_0_0" data-passage="Mark 4.40" id="Mark.4.40"/><sup>40</sup>And he said unto them, Why are ye fearful? have ye not yet faith? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.4.41" data-parsed="Mark_4_41_0_0" data-passage="Mark 4.41" id="Mark.4.41"/><sup>41</sup>And they feared exceedingly, and said one to another, Who then is this, that even the wind and the sea obey him?</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>