<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Mark 2</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Mark 2</span></div><div data-next="Mark.3" data-prev="Mark.1" data-progress="80.45%" data-shorttitle="" id="Mark.2" title="Mark 2">
<h2 id="Mark.2-p0.1">2</h2>
<p id="Mark.2-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.2.1" data-parsed="Mark_2_1_0_0" data-passage="Mark 2.1" id="Mark.2.1"/><sup>1</sup>And when he entered again into Capernaum after some days, it was noised that he was in the house. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.2.2" data-parsed="Mark_2_2_0_0" data-passage="Mark 2.2" id="Mark.2.2"/><sup>2</sup>And many were gathered together, so that there was no longer room <i>for them</i>, no, not even about the door:
and he spake the word unto them. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.2.3" data-parsed="Mark_2_3_0_0" data-passage="Mark 2.3" id="Mark.2.3"/><sup>3</sup>And they come, bringing unto him a man sick of the palsy, borne of four. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.2.4" data-parsed="Mark_2_4_0_0" data-passage="Mark 2.4" id="Mark.2.4"/><sup>4</sup>And when they could not come nigh unto him for the crowd, they uncovered the roof where he was: and when they had broken it up, they let down the bed whereon the sick of the palsy lay.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.2.5" data-parsed="Mark_2_5_0_0" data-passage="Mark 2.5" id="Mark.2.5"/><sup>5</sup>And Jesus seeing their faith saith unto the sick of the palsy, Son, thy sins are forgiven. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.2.6" data-parsed="Mark_2_6_0_0" data-passage="Mark 2.6" id="Mark.2.6"/><sup>6</sup>But there were certain of the scribes sitting there,
and reasoning in their hearts, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.2.7" data-parsed="Mark_2_7_0_0" data-passage="Mark 2.7" id="Mark.2.7"/><sup>7</sup>Why doth this man thus speak? he blasphemeth: who can forgive sins but one, <i>even</i> God? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.2.8" data-parsed="Mark_2_8_0_0" data-passage="Mark 2.8" id="Mark.2.8"/><sup>8</sup>And straightway Jesus, perceiving in his spirit that they so reasoned within themselves, saith unto them, Why reason ye these things in your hearts?

<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.2.9" data-parsed="Mark_2_9_0_0" data-passage="Mark 2.9" id="Mark.2.9"/><sup>9</sup>Which is easier, to say to the sick of the palsy, Thy sins are forgiven;
or to say, Arise, and take up thy bed, and walk? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.2.10" data-parsed="Mark_2_10_0_0" data-passage="Mark 2.10" id="Mark.2.10"/><sup>10</sup>But that ye may know that the Son of man hath authority on earth to forgive sins (he saith to the sick of the palsy), 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.2.11" data-parsed="Mark_2_11_0_0" data-passage="Mark 2.11" id="Mark.2.11"/><sup>11</sup>I say unto thee, Arise, take up thy bed, and go unto thy house. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.2.12" data-parsed="Mark_2_12_0_0" data-passage="Mark 2.12" id="Mark.2.12"/><sup>12</sup>And he arose, and straightway took up the bed, and went forth before them all; insomuch that they were all amazed, and glorified God,
saying, We never saw it on this fashion. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.2.13" data-parsed="Mark_2_13_0_0" data-passage="Mark 2.13" id="Mark.2.13"/><sup>13</sup>And he went forth again by the sea side; and all the multitude resorted unto him, and he taught them.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.2.14" data-parsed="Mark_2_14_0_0" data-passage="Mark 2.14" id="Mark.2.14"/><sup>14</sup>And as he passed by, he saw Levi the <i>son</i> of Alphaeus sitting at the place of toll, and he saith unto him, Follow me. And he arose and followed him. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.2.15" data-parsed="Mark_2_15_0_0" data-passage="Mark 2.15" id="Mark.2.15"/><sup>15</sup>And it came to pass, that he was sitting at meat in his house, and many publicans and sinners sat down with Jesus and his disciples:
for there were many, and they followed him. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.2.16" data-parsed="Mark_2_16_0_0" data-passage="Mark 2.16" id="Mark.2.16"/><sup>16</sup>And the scribes of the Pharisees, when they saw that he was eating with the sinners and publicans,
said unto his disciples, <i>How is it</i> that he eateth and drinketh with publicans and sinners? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.2.17" data-parsed="Mark_2_17_0_0" data-passage="Mark 2.17" id="Mark.2.17"/><sup>17</sup>And when Jesus heard it, he saith unto them,
They that are whole have no need of a physician, but they that are sick: I came not to call the righteous, but sinners. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.2.18" data-parsed="Mark_2_18_0_0" data-passage="Mark 2.18" id="Mark.2.18"/><sup>18</sup>And John's disciples and the Pharisees were fasting: and they come and say unto him, Why do John's disciples and the disciples of the Pharisees fast, but thy disciples fast not? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.2.19" data-parsed="Mark_2_19_0_0" data-passage="Mark 2.19" id="Mark.2.19"/><sup>19</sup>And Jesus said unto them, Can the sons of the bridechamber fast,
while the bridegroom is with them? as long as they have the bridegroom with them, they cannot fast. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.2.20" data-parsed="Mark_2_20_0_0" data-passage="Mark 2.20" id="Mark.2.20"/><sup>20</sup>But the days will come, when the bridegroom shall be taken away from them, and then will they fast in that day. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.2.21" data-parsed="Mark_2_21_0_0" data-passage="Mark 2.21" id="Mark.2.21"/><sup>21</sup>No man seweth a piece of undressed cloth on an old garment: else that which should fill it up taketh from it, the new from the old, and a worse rent is made. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.2.22" data-parsed="Mark_2_22_0_0" data-passage="Mark 2.22" id="Mark.2.22"/><sup>22</sup>And no man putteth new wine into old wineskins; else the wine will burst the skins, and the wine perisheth, and the skins: but <i>they put</i> new wine into fresh wine-skins. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.2.23" data-parsed="Mark_2_23_0_0" data-passage="Mark 2.23" id="Mark.2.23"/><sup>23</sup>And it came to pass, that he was going on the sabbath day through the grainfields; and his disciples began, as they went, to pluck the ears. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.2.24" data-parsed="Mark_2_24_0_0" data-passage="Mark 2.24" id="Mark.2.24"/><sup>24</sup>And the Pharisees said unto him, Behold, why do they on the sabbath day that which is not lawful?

<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.2.25" data-parsed="Mark_2_25_0_0" data-passage="Mark 2.25" id="Mark.2.25"/><sup>25</sup>And he said unto them, Did ye never read what David did, when he had need, and was hungry, he, and they that were with him? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.2.26" data-parsed="Mark_2_26_0_0" data-passage="Mark 2.26" id="Mark.2.26"/><sup>26</sup>How he entered into the house of God when Abiathar was high priest, and ate the showbread,
which it is not lawful to eat save for the priests, and gave also to them that were with him? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.2.27" data-parsed="Mark_2_27_0_0" data-passage="Mark 2.27" id="Mark.2.27"/><sup>27</sup>And he said unto them, The sabbath was made for man, and not man for the sabbath: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.2.28" data-parsed="Mark_2_28_0_0" data-passage="Mark 2.28" id="Mark.2.28"/><sup>28</sup>so that the Son of man is lord even of the sabbath.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>