<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Mark 13</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Mark 13</span></div><div data-next="Mark.14" data-prev="Mark.12" data-progress="81.72%" data-shorttitle="" id="Mark.13" title="Mark 13">
<h2 id="Mark.13-p0.1">13</h2>
<p id="Mark.13-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.13.1" data-parsed="Mark_13_1_0_0" data-passage="Mark 13.1" id="Mark.13.1"/><sup>1</sup>And as he went forth out of the temple, one of his disciples saith unto him, Teacher, behold, what manner of stones and what manner of buildings! 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.13.2" data-parsed="Mark_13_2_0_0" data-passage="Mark 13.2" id="Mark.13.2"/><sup>2</sup>And Jesus said unto him, Seest thou these great buildings?
there shall not be left here one stone upon another, which shall not be thrown down. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.13.3" data-parsed="Mark_13_3_0_0" data-passage="Mark 13.3" id="Mark.13.3"/><sup>3</sup>And as he sat on the mount of Olives over against the temple, Peter and James and John and Andrew asked him privately, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.13.4" data-parsed="Mark_13_4_0_0" data-passage="Mark 13.4" id="Mark.13.4"/><sup>4</sup>Tell us, when shall these things be? and what <i>shall be</i> the sign when these things are all about to be accomplished? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.13.5" data-parsed="Mark_13_5_0_0" data-passage="Mark 13.5" id="Mark.13.5"/><sup>5</sup>And Jesus began to say unto them, Take heed that no man lead you astray. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.13.6" data-parsed="Mark_13_6_0_0" data-passage="Mark 13.6" id="Mark.13.6"/><sup>6</sup>Many shall come in my name,
saying, I am <i>he</i>; and shall lead many astray. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.13.7" data-parsed="Mark_13_7_0_0" data-passage="Mark 13.7" id="Mark.13.7"/><sup>7</sup>And when ye shall hear of wars and rumors of wars, be not troubled: <i>these things</i> must needs come to pass; but the end is not yet. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.13.8" data-parsed="Mark_13_8_0_0" data-passage="Mark 13.8" id="Mark.13.8"/><sup>8</sup>For nation shall rise against nation, and kingdom against kingdom; there shall be earthquakes in divers places; there shall be famines: these things are the beginning of travail. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.13.9" data-parsed="Mark_13_9_0_0" data-passage="Mark 13.9" id="Mark.13.9"/><sup>9</sup>But take ye heed to yourselves: for they shall deliver you up to councils; and in synagogues shall ye be beaten; and before governors and kings shall ye stand for my sake, for a testimony unto them. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.13.10" data-parsed="Mark_13_10_0_0" data-passage="Mark 13.10" id="Mark.13.10"/><sup>10</sup>And the gospel must first be preached unto all the nations. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.13.11" data-parsed="Mark_13_11_0_0" data-passage="Mark 13.11" id="Mark.13.11"/><sup>11</sup>And when they lead you <i>to judgment</i>, and deliver you up, be not anxious beforehand what ye shall speak: but whatsoever shall be given you in that hour, that speak ye; for it is not ye that speak, but the Holy Spirit. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.13.12" data-parsed="Mark_13_12_0_0" data-passage="Mark 13.12" id="Mark.13.12"/><sup>12</sup>And brother shall deliver up brother to death, and the father his child; and children shall rise up against parents, and cause them to be put to death. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.13.13" data-parsed="Mark_13_13_0_0" data-passage="Mark 13.13" id="Mark.13.13"/><sup>13</sup>And ye shall be hated of all men for my name's sake: but he that endureth to the end, the same shall be saved. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.13.14" data-parsed="Mark_13_14_0_0" data-passage="Mark 13.14" id="Mark.13.14"/><sup>14</sup>But when ye see the abomination of desolation standing where he ought not (let him that readeth understand),
then let them that are in Judaea flee unto the mountains: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.13.15" data-parsed="Mark_13_15_0_0" data-passage="Mark 13.15" id="Mark.13.15"/><sup>15</sup>and let him that is on the housetop not go down, nor enter in, to take anything out his house: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.13.16" data-parsed="Mark_13_16_0_0" data-passage="Mark 13.16" id="Mark.13.16"/><sup>16</sup>and let him that is in the field not return back to take his cloak. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.13.17" data-parsed="Mark_13_17_0_0" data-passage="Mark 13.17" id="Mark.13.17"/><sup>17</sup>But woe unto them that are with child and to them that give suck in those days! 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.13.18" data-parsed="Mark_13_18_0_0" data-passage="Mark 13.18" id="Mark.13.18"/><sup>18</sup>And pray ye that it be not in the winter. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.13.19" data-parsed="Mark_13_19_0_0" data-passage="Mark 13.19" id="Mark.13.19"/><sup>19</sup>For those days shall be tribulation, such as there hath not been the like from the beginning of the creation which God created until now, and never shall be. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.13.20" data-parsed="Mark_13_20_0_0" data-passage="Mark 13.20" id="Mark.13.20"/><sup>20</sup>And except the Lord had shortened the days, no flesh would have been saved; but for the elect's sake, whom he chose, he shortened the days.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.13.21" data-parsed="Mark_13_21_0_0" data-passage="Mark 13.21" id="Mark.13.21"/><sup>21</sup>And then if any man shall say unto you, Lo, here is the Christ; or, Lo,
there; believe <i>it</i> not: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.13.22" data-parsed="Mark_13_22_0_0" data-passage="Mark 13.22" id="Mark.13.22"/><sup>22</sup>for there shall arise false Christs and false prophets, and shall show signs and wonders, that they may lead astray,
if possible, the elect. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.13.23" data-parsed="Mark_13_23_0_0" data-passage="Mark 13.23" id="Mark.13.23"/><sup>23</sup>But take ye heed: behold, I have told you all things beforehand. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.13.24" data-parsed="Mark_13_24_0_0" data-passage="Mark 13.24" id="Mark.13.24"/><sup>24</sup>But in those days, after that tribulation, the sun shall be darkened, and the moon shall not give her light, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.13.25" data-parsed="Mark_13_25_0_0" data-passage="Mark 13.25" id="Mark.13.25"/><sup>25</sup>and the stars shall be falling from heaven, and the powers that are in the heavens shall be shaken. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.13.26" data-parsed="Mark_13_26_0_0" data-passage="Mark 13.26" id="Mark.13.26"/><sup>26</sup>And then shall they see the Son of man coming in clouds with great power and glory. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.13.27" data-parsed="Mark_13_27_0_0" data-passage="Mark 13.27" id="Mark.13.27"/><sup>27</sup>And then shall he send forth the angels, and shall gather together his elect from the four winds, from the uttermost part of the earth to the uttermost part of heaven. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.13.28" data-parsed="Mark_13_28_0_0" data-passage="Mark 13.28" id="Mark.13.28"/><sup>28</sup>Now from the fig tree learn her parable: when her branch is now become tender, and putteth forth its leaves, ye know that the summer is nigh; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.13.29" data-parsed="Mark_13_29_0_0" data-passage="Mark 13.29" id="Mark.13.29"/><sup>29</sup>even so ye also, when ye see these things coming to pass, know ye that he is nigh, <i>even</i> at the doors. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.13.30" data-parsed="Mark_13_30_0_0" data-passage="Mark 13.30" id="Mark.13.30"/><sup>30</sup>Verily I say unto you, This generation shall not pass away,
until all these things be accomplished. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.13.31" data-parsed="Mark_13_31_0_0" data-passage="Mark 13.31" id="Mark.13.31"/><sup>31</sup>Heaven and earth shall pass away: but my words shall not pass away. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.13.32" data-parsed="Mark_13_32_0_0" data-passage="Mark 13.32" id="Mark.13.32"/><sup>32</sup>But of that day or that hour knoweth no one, not even the angels in heaven, neither the Son, but the Father. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.13.33" data-parsed="Mark_13_33_0_0" data-passage="Mark 13.33" id="Mark.13.33"/><sup>33</sup>Take ye heed, watch and pray: for ye know not when the time is.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.13.34" data-parsed="Mark_13_34_0_0" data-passage="Mark 13.34" id="Mark.13.34"/><sup>34</sup><i>It is</i> as <i>when</i> a man, sojourning in another country,
having left his house, and given authority to his servants, to each one his work, commanded also the porter to watch. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.13.35" data-parsed="Mark_13_35_0_0" data-passage="Mark 13.35" id="Mark.13.35"/><sup>35</sup>Watch therefore: for ye know not when the lord of the house cometh, whether at even, or at midnight, or at cockcrowing, or in the morning; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.13.36" data-parsed="Mark_13_36_0_0" data-passage="Mark 13.36" id="Mark.13.36"/><sup>36</sup>lest coming suddenly he find you sleeping. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.13.37" data-parsed="Mark_13_37_0_0" data-passage="Mark 13.37" id="Mark.13.37"/><sup>37</sup>And what I say unto you I say unto all, Watch.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>