<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Mark 11</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Mark 11</span></div><div data-next="Mark.12" data-prev="Mark.10" data-progress="81.50%" data-shorttitle="" id="Mark.11" title="Mark 11">
<h2 id="Mark.11-p0.1">11</h2>
<p id="Mark.11-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.11.1" data-parsed="Mark_11_1_0_0" data-passage="Mark 11.1" id="Mark.11.1"/><sup>1</sup>And when they draw nigh unto Jerusalem, unto Bethphage and Bethany, at the mount of Olives, he sendeth two of his disciples, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.11.2" data-parsed="Mark_11_2_0_0" data-passage="Mark 11.2" id="Mark.11.2"/><sup>2</sup>and saith unto them, Go your way into the village that is over against you: and straightway as ye enter into it, ye shall find a colt tied, whereon no man ever yet sat; loose him, and bring him. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.11.3" data-parsed="Mark_11_3_0_0" data-passage="Mark 11.3" id="Mark.11.3"/><sup>3</sup>And if any one say unto you, Why do ye this? say ye, The Lord hath need of him; and straightway he will send him back hither. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.11.4" data-parsed="Mark_11_4_0_0" data-passage="Mark 11.4" id="Mark.11.4"/><sup>4</sup>And they went away, and found a colt tied at the door without in the open street; and they loose him. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.11.5" data-parsed="Mark_11_5_0_0" data-passage="Mark 11.5" id="Mark.11.5"/><sup>5</sup>And certain of them that stood there said unto them, What do ye, loosing the colt? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.11.6" data-parsed="Mark_11_6_0_0" data-passage="Mark 11.6" id="Mark.11.6"/><sup>6</sup>And they said unto them even as Jesus had said: and they let them go. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.11.7" data-parsed="Mark_11_7_0_0" data-passage="Mark 11.7" id="Mark.11.7"/><sup>7</sup>And they bring the colt unto Jesus, and cast on him their garments; and he sat upon him.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.11.8" data-parsed="Mark_11_8_0_0" data-passage="Mark 11.8" id="Mark.11.8"/><sup>8</sup>And many spread their garments upon the way; and others branches, which they had cut from the fields. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.11.9" data-parsed="Mark_11_9_0_0" data-passage="Mark 11.9" id="Mark.11.9"/><sup>9</sup>And they that went before, and they that followed, cried, Hosanna; Blessed <i>is</i> he that cometh in the name of the Lord: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.11.10" data-parsed="Mark_11_10_0_0" data-passage="Mark 11.10" id="Mark.11.10"/><sup>10</sup>Blessed <i>is</i> the kingdom that cometh, <i>the kingdom</i> of our father David: Hosanna in the highest. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.11.11" data-parsed="Mark_11_11_0_0" data-passage="Mark 11.11" id="Mark.11.11"/><sup>11</sup>And he entered into Jerusalem, into the temple; and when he had looked round about upon all things, it being now eventide, he went out unto Bethany with the twelve.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.11.12" data-parsed="Mark_11_12_0_0" data-passage="Mark 11.12" id="Mark.11.12"/><sup>12</sup>And on the morrow, when they were come out from Bethany, he hungered.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.11.13" data-parsed="Mark_11_13_0_0" data-passage="Mark 11.13" id="Mark.11.13"/><sup>13</sup>And seeing a fig tree afar off having leaves, he came, if haply he might find anything thereon: and when he came to it, he found nothing but leaves; for it was not the season of figs. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.11.14" data-parsed="Mark_11_14_0_0" data-passage="Mark 11.14" id="Mark.11.14"/><sup>14</sup>And he answered and said unto it, No man eat fruit from thee henceforward for ever. And his disciples heard it. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.11.15" data-parsed="Mark_11_15_0_0" data-passage="Mark 11.15" id="Mark.11.15"/><sup>15</sup>And they come to Jerusalem: and he entered into the temple,
and began to cast out them that sold and them that bought in the temple, and overthrew the tables of the money-changers, and the seats of them that sold the doves; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.11.16" data-parsed="Mark_11_16_0_0" data-passage="Mark 11.16" id="Mark.11.16"/><sup>16</sup>and he would not suffer that any man should carry a vessel through the temple. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.11.17" data-parsed="Mark_11_17_0_0" data-passage="Mark 11.17" id="Mark.11.17"/><sup>17</sup>And he taught, and said unto them, Is it not written, My house shall be called a house of prayer for all the nations? but ye have made it a den of robbers. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.11.18" data-parsed="Mark_11_18_0_0" data-passage="Mark 11.18" id="Mark.11.18"/><sup>18</sup>And the chief priests and the scribes heard it, and sought how they might destroy him: for they feared him, for all the multitude was astonished at his teaching. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.11.19" data-parsed="Mark_11_19_0_0" data-passage="Mark 11.19" id="Mark.11.19"/><sup>19</sup>And every evening he went forth out of the city. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.11.20" data-parsed="Mark_11_20_0_0" data-passage="Mark 11.20" id="Mark.11.20"/><sup>20</sup>And as they passed by in the morning, they saw the fig tree withered away from the roots. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.11.21" data-parsed="Mark_11_21_0_0" data-passage="Mark 11.21" id="Mark.11.21"/><sup>21</sup>And Peter calling to remembrance saith unto him, Rabbi, behold, the fig tree which thou cursedst is withered away. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.11.22" data-parsed="Mark_11_22_0_0" data-passage="Mark 11.22" id="Mark.11.22"/><sup>22</sup>And Jesus answering saith unto them, Have faith in God. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.11.23" data-parsed="Mark_11_23_0_0" data-passage="Mark 11.23" id="Mark.11.23"/><sup>23</sup>Verily I say unto you, Whosoever shall say unto this mountain, Be thou taken up and cast into the sea; and shall not doubt in his heart, but shall believe that what he saith cometh to pass; he shall have it.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.11.24" data-parsed="Mark_11_24_0_0" data-passage="Mark 11.24" id="Mark.11.24"/><sup>24</sup>Therefore I say unto you, All things whatsoever ye pray and ask for,
believe that ye receive them, and ye shall have them. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.11.25" data-parsed="Mark_11_25_0_0" data-passage="Mark 11.25" id="Mark.11.25"/><sup>25</sup>And whensoever ye stand praying, forgive, if ye have aught against any one; that your Father also who is in heaven may forgive you your trespasses. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.11.26" data-parsed="Mark_11_26_0_0" data-passage="Mark 11.26" id="Mark.11.26"/><sup>26</sup><i>But if ye do not forgive, neither will your Father who is in heaven forgive your trespasses.</i>
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.11.27" data-parsed="Mark_11_27_0_0" data-passage="Mark 11.27" id="Mark.11.27"/><sup>27</sup>And they come again to Jerusalem: and as he was walking in the temple, there come to him the chief priests, and the scribes, and the elders; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.11.28" data-parsed="Mark_11_28_0_0" data-passage="Mark 11.28" id="Mark.11.28"/><sup>28</sup>and they said unto him, By what authority doest thou these things? or who gave thee this authority to do these things? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.11.29" data-parsed="Mark_11_29_0_0" data-passage="Mark 11.29" id="Mark.11.29"/><sup>29</sup>And Jesus said unto them, I will ask of you one question, and answer me, and I will tell you by what authority I do these things. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.11.30" data-parsed="Mark_11_30_0_0" data-passage="Mark 11.30" id="Mark.11.30"/><sup>30</sup>The baptism of John, was it from heaven, or from men? answer me. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.11.31" data-parsed="Mark_11_31_0_0" data-passage="Mark 11.31" id="Mark.11.31"/><sup>31</sup>And they reasoned with themselves, saying, If we shall say, From heaven; He will say, Why then did ye not believe him? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.11.32" data-parsed="Mark_11_32_0_0" data-passage="Mark 11.32" id="Mark.11.32"/><sup>32</sup>But should we say, From men--they feared the people: for all verily held John to be a prophet. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mark.11.33" data-parsed="Mark_11_33_0_0" data-passage="Mark 11.33" id="Mark.11.33"/><sup>33</sup>And they answered Jesus and say, We know not. And Jesus saith unto them, Neither tell I you by what authority I do these things.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>