<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Matthew 2</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Matthew 2</span></div><div data-next="Matt.3" data-prev="Matt.1" data-progress="77.46%" data-shorttitle="" id="Matt.2" title="Matthew 2">
<h2 id="Matt.2-p0.1">2</h2>
<p id="Matt.2-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.2.1" data-parsed="Matt_2_1_0_0" data-passage="Matt 2.1" id="Matt.2.1"/><sup>1</sup>Now when Jesus was born in Bethlehem of Judaea in the days of Herod the king, behold, Wise-men from the east came to Jerusalem, saying,

<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.2.2" data-parsed="Matt_2_2_0_0" data-passage="Matt 2.2" id="Matt.2.2"/><sup>2</sup>Where is he that is born King of the Jews? for we saw his star in the east, and are come to worship him. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.2.3" data-parsed="Matt_2_3_0_0" data-passage="Matt 2.3" id="Matt.2.3"/><sup>3</sup>And when Herod the king heard it, he was troubled, and all Jerusalem with him. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.2.4" data-parsed="Matt_2_4_0_0" data-passage="Matt 2.4" id="Matt.2.4"/><sup>4</sup>And gathering together all the chief priests and scribes of the people, he inquired of them where the Christ should be born. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.2.5" data-parsed="Matt_2_5_0_0" data-passage="Matt 2.5" id="Matt.2.5"/><sup>5</sup>And they said unto him, In Bethlehem of Judaea: for thus it is written through the prophet,</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Matt.2-p2">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.2.6" data-parsed="Matt_2_6_0_0" data-passage="Matt 2.6" id="Matt.2.6"/><sup>6</sup>And thou Bethlehem, land of Judah,</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Matt.2-p3">
Art in no wise least among the princes of Judah:</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Matt.2-p4">
For out of thee shall come forth a governor,</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Matt.2-p5">
Who shall be shepherd of my people Israel.</p>
<p id="Matt.2-p6">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.2.7" data-parsed="Matt_2_7_0_0" data-passage="Matt 2.7" id="Matt.2.7"/><sup>7</sup>Then Herod privily called the Wise-men, and learned of them exactly what time the star appeared. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.2.8" data-parsed="Matt_2_8_0_0" data-passage="Matt 2.8" id="Matt.2.8"/><sup>8</sup>And he sent them to Bethlehem, and said, Go and search out exactly concerning the young child; and when ye have found <i>him,</i> bring me word, that I also may come and worship him. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.2.9" data-parsed="Matt_2_9_0_0" data-passage="Matt 2.9" id="Matt.2.9"/><sup>9</sup>And they, having heard the king, went their way; and lo, the star, which they saw in the east, went before them, till it came and stood over where the young child was. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.2.10" data-parsed="Matt_2_10_0_0" data-passage="Matt 2.10" id="Matt.2.10"/><sup>10</sup>And when they saw the star, they rejoiced with exceeding great joy. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.2.11" data-parsed="Matt_2_11_0_0" data-passage="Matt 2.11" id="Matt.2.11"/><sup>11</sup>And they came into the house and saw the young child with Mary his mother; and they fell down and worshipped him; and opening their treasures they offered unto him gifts, gold and frankincense and myrrh.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.2.12" data-parsed="Matt_2_12_0_0" data-passage="Matt 2.12" id="Matt.2.12"/><sup>12</sup>And being warned <i>of God</i> in a dream that they should not  return to Herod, they departed into their own country another way.</p>
<p id="Matt.2-p7">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.2.13" data-parsed="Matt_2_13_0_0" data-passage="Matt 2.13" id="Matt.2.13"/><sup>13</sup>Now when they were departed, behold, an angel of the Lord appeareth to Joseph in a dream, saying, Arise and take the young child and his mother, and flee into Egypt, and be thou there until I tell thee: for Herod will seek the young child to destroy him. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.2.14" data-parsed="Matt_2_14_0_0" data-passage="Matt 2.14" id="Matt.2.14"/><sup>14</sup>And he arose and took the young child and his mother by night, and departed into Egypt; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.2.15" data-parsed="Matt_2_15_0_0" data-passage="Matt 2.15" id="Matt.2.15"/><sup>15</sup>and was there until the death of Herod: that it might be fulfilled which was spoken by the Lord through the prophet, saying, Out of Egypt did I call my son.</p>
<p id="Matt.2-p8">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.2.16" data-parsed="Matt_2_16_0_0" data-passage="Matt 2.16" id="Matt.2.16"/><sup>16</sup>Then Herod, when he saw that he was mocked of the Wise-men, was exceeding wroth, and sent forth, and slew all the male children that were in Bethlehem, and in all the borders thereof, from two years old and under,
according to the time which he had exactly learned of the Wise-men.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.2.17" data-parsed="Matt_2_17_0_0" data-passage="Matt 2.17" id="Matt.2.17"/><sup>17</sup>Then was fulfilled that which was spoken through Jeremiah the prophet,
saying,</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Matt.2-p9">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.2.18" data-parsed="Matt_2_18_0_0" data-passage="Matt 2.18" id="Matt.2.18"/><sup>18</sup>A voice was heard in Ramah,</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Matt.2-p10">
Weeping and great mourning,</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Matt.2-p11">
Rachel weeping for her children;</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Matt.2-p12">
And she would not be comforted, because they are not.</p>
<p id="Matt.2-p13">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.2.19" data-parsed="Matt_2_19_0_0" data-passage="Matt 2.19" id="Matt.2.19"/><sup>19</sup>But when Herod was dead, behold, an angel of the Lord appeareth in a dream to Joseph in Egypt, saying, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.2.20" data-parsed="Matt_2_20_0_0" data-passage="Matt 2.20" id="Matt.2.20"/><sup>20</sup>Arise and take the young child and his mother, and go into the land of Israel: for they are dead that sought the young child's life. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.2.21" data-parsed="Matt_2_21_0_0" data-passage="Matt 2.21" id="Matt.2.21"/><sup>21</sup>And he arose and took the young child and his mother, and came into the land of Israel. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.2.22" data-parsed="Matt_2_22_0_0" data-passage="Matt 2.22" id="Matt.2.22"/><sup>22</sup>But when he heard that Archelaus was reigning over Judaea in the room of his father Herod, he was afraid to go thither; and being warned <i>of God</i> in a dream, he withdrew into the parts of Galilee, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.2.23" data-parsed="Matt_2_23_0_0" data-passage="Matt 2.23" id="Matt.2.23"/><sup>23</sup>and came and dwelt in a city called Nazareth; that it might be fulfilled which was spoken through the prophets,
that he should be called a Nazarene.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>