<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Matthew 10</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Matthew 10</span></div><div data-next="Matt.11" data-prev="Matt.9" data-progress="78.16%" data-shorttitle="" id="Matt.10" title="Matthew 10">
<h2 id="Matt.10-p0.1">10</h2>
<p id="Matt.10-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.10.1" data-parsed="Matt_10_1_0_0" data-passage="Matt 10.1" id="Matt.10.1"/><sup>1</sup>And he called unto him his twelve disciples, and gave them authority over unclean spirits, to cast them out, and to heal all manner of disease and all manner of sickness.</p>
<p id="Matt.10-p2">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.10.2" data-parsed="Matt_10_2_0_0" data-passage="Matt 10.2" id="Matt.10.2"/><sup>2</sup>Now the names of the twelve apostles are these: The first, Simon, who is called Peter, and Andrew his brother; James the <i>son</i> of Zebedee, and John his brother; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.10.3" data-parsed="Matt_10_3_0_0" data-passage="Matt 10.3" id="Matt.10.3"/><sup>3</sup>Philip, and Bartholomew; Thomas, and Matthew the publican; James the <i>son</i> of Alphaeus, and Thaddaeus; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.10.4" data-parsed="Matt_10_4_0_0" data-passage="Matt 10.4" id="Matt.10.4"/><sup>4</sup>Simon the Cananaean, and Judas Iscariot, who also betrayed him.</p>
<p id="Matt.10-p3">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.10.5" data-parsed="Matt_10_5_0_0" data-passage="Matt 10.5" id="Matt.10.5"/><sup>5</sup>These twelve Jesus sent forth, and charged them, saying, Go not into <i>any</i> way of the Gentiles, and enter not into any city of the Samaritans: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.10.6" data-parsed="Matt_10_6_0_0" data-passage="Matt 10.6" id="Matt.10.6"/><sup>6</sup>but go rather to the lost sheep of the house of Israel.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.10.7" data-parsed="Matt_10_7_0_0" data-passage="Matt 10.7" id="Matt.10.7"/><sup>7</sup>And as ye go, preach, saying, The kingdom of heaven is at hand.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.10.8" data-parsed="Matt_10_8_0_0" data-passage="Matt 10.8" id="Matt.10.8"/><sup>8</sup>Heal the sick, raise the dead, cleanse the lepers, cast out demons:
freely ye received, freely give. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.10.9" data-parsed="Matt_10_9_0_0" data-passage="Matt 10.9" id="Matt.10.9"/><sup>9</sup>Get you no gold, nor silver, nor brass in your purses; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.10.10" data-parsed="Matt_10_10_0_0" data-passage="Matt 10.10" id="Matt.10.10"/><sup>10</sup>no wallet for <i>your</i> journey, neither two coats,
nor shoes, nor staff: for the laborer is worthy of his food. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.10.11" data-parsed="Matt_10_11_0_0" data-passage="Matt 10.11" id="Matt.10.11"/><sup>11</sup>And into whatsoever city or village ye shall enter, search out who in it is worthy;
and there abide till ye go forth. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.10.12" data-parsed="Matt_10_12_0_0" data-passage="Matt 10.12" id="Matt.10.12"/><sup>12</sup>And as ye enter into the house,
salute it. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.10.13" data-parsed="Matt_10_13_0_0" data-passage="Matt 10.13" id="Matt.10.13"/><sup>13</sup>And if the house be worthy, let your peace come upon it: but if it be not worthy, let your peace return to you. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.10.14" data-parsed="Matt_10_14_0_0" data-passage="Matt 10.14" id="Matt.10.14"/><sup>14</sup>And whosoever shall not receive you, nor hear your words, as ye go forth out of that house or that city, shake off the dust of your feet. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.10.15" data-parsed="Matt_10_15_0_0" data-passage="Matt 10.15" id="Matt.10.15"/><sup>15</sup>Verily I say unto you, It shall be more tolerable for the land of Sodom and Gomorrah in the day of judgment, than for that city.</p>
<p id="Matt.10-p4">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.10.16" data-parsed="Matt_10_16_0_0" data-passage="Matt 10.16" id="Matt.10.16"/><sup>16</sup>Behold, I send you forth as sheep in the midst of wolves: be ye therefore wise as serpents, and harmless as doves. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.10.17" data-parsed="Matt_10_17_0_0" data-passage="Matt 10.17" id="Matt.10.17"/><sup>17</sup>But beware of men:
for they will deliver you up to councils, and in theirs synagogues they will scourge you; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.10.18" data-parsed="Matt_10_18_0_0" data-passage="Matt 10.18" id="Matt.10.18"/><sup>18</sup>yea and before governors and kings shall ye be brought for my sake, for a testimony to them and to the Gentiles. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.10.19" data-parsed="Matt_10_19_0_0" data-passage="Matt 10.19" id="Matt.10.19"/><sup>19</sup>But when they deliver you up, be not anxious how or what ye shall speak: for it shall be given you in that hour what ye shall speak. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.10.20" data-parsed="Matt_10_20_0_0" data-passage="Matt 10.20" id="Matt.10.20"/><sup>20</sup>For it is not ye that speak, but the Spirit of your Father that speaketh in you. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.10.21" data-parsed="Matt_10_21_0_0" data-passage="Matt 10.21" id="Matt.10.21"/><sup>21</sup>And brother shall deliver up brother to death, and the father his child: and children shall rise up against parents, and cause them to be put to death. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.10.22" data-parsed="Matt_10_22_0_0" data-passage="Matt 10.22" id="Matt.10.22"/><sup>22</sup>And ye shall be hated of all men for my name's sake: but he that endureth to the end, the same shall be saved. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.10.23" data-parsed="Matt_10_23_0_0" data-passage="Matt 10.23" id="Matt.10.23"/><sup>23</sup>But when they persecute you in this city,
flee into the next: for verily I say unto you, Ye shall not have gone through the cities of Israel, till the Son of man be come.</p>
<p id="Matt.10-p5">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.10.24" data-parsed="Matt_10_24_0_0" data-passage="Matt 10.24" id="Matt.10.24"/><sup>24</sup>A disciple is not above his teacher, nor a servant above his lord.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.10.25" data-parsed="Matt_10_25_0_0" data-passage="Matt 10.25" id="Matt.10.25"/><sup>25</sup>It is enough for the disciple that he be as his teacher, and the servant as his lord. If they have called the master of the house Beelzebub,
how much more them of his household! 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.10.26" data-parsed="Matt_10_26_0_0" data-passage="Matt 10.26" id="Matt.10.26"/><sup>26</sup>Fear them not therefore: for there is nothing covered, that shall not be revealed; and hid, that shall not be known. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.10.27" data-parsed="Matt_10_27_0_0" data-passage="Matt 10.27" id="Matt.10.27"/><sup>27</sup>What I tell you in the darkness, speak ye in the light; and what ye hear in the ear, proclaim upon the house-tops. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.10.28" data-parsed="Matt_10_28_0_0" data-passage="Matt 10.28" id="Matt.10.28"/><sup>28</sup>And be not afraid of them that kill the body, but are not able to kill the soul: but rather fear him who is able to destroy both soul and body in hell. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.10.29" data-parsed="Matt_10_29_0_0" data-passage="Matt 10.29" id="Matt.10.29"/><sup>29</sup>Are not two sparrows sold for a penny? and not one of them shall fall on the ground without your Father: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.10.30" data-parsed="Matt_10_30_0_0" data-passage="Matt 10.30" id="Matt.10.30"/><sup>30</sup>but the very hairs of your head are all numbered.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.10.31" data-parsed="Matt_10_31_0_0" data-passage="Matt 10.31" id="Matt.10.31"/><sup>31</sup>Fear not therefore: ye are of more value than many sparrows.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.10.32" data-parsed="Matt_10_32_0_0" data-passage="Matt 10.32" id="Matt.10.32"/><sup>32</sup>Every one therefore who shall confess me before men, him will I also confess before my Father who is in heaven. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.10.33" data-parsed="Matt_10_33_0_0" data-passage="Matt 10.33" id="Matt.10.33"/><sup>33</sup>But whosoever shall deny me before men, him will I also deny before my Father who is in heaven.</p>
<p id="Matt.10-p6">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.10.34" data-parsed="Matt_10_34_0_0" data-passage="Matt 10.34" id="Matt.10.34"/><sup>34</sup>Think not that I came to send peace on the earth: I came not to send peace, but a sword. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.10.35" data-parsed="Matt_10_35_0_0" data-passage="Matt 10.35" id="Matt.10.35"/><sup>35</sup>For I came to set a man at variance against his father, and the daughter against her mother, and the daughter in law against her mother in law: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.10.36" data-parsed="Matt_10_36_0_0" data-passage="Matt 10.36" id="Matt.10.36"/><sup>36</sup>and a man's foes <i>shall be</i> they of his own household. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.10.37" data-parsed="Matt_10_37_0_0" data-passage="Matt 10.37" id="Matt.10.37"/><sup>37</sup>He that loveth father or mother more than me is not worthy of me; and he that loveth son or daughter more than me is not worthy of me.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.10.38" data-parsed="Matt_10_38_0_0" data-passage="Matt 10.38" id="Matt.10.38"/><sup>38</sup>And he that doth not take his cross and follow after me, is not worthy of me. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.10.39" data-parsed="Matt_10_39_0_0" data-passage="Matt 10.39" id="Matt.10.39"/><sup>39</sup>He that findeth his life shall lose it; and he that loseth his life for my sake shall find it.</p>
<p id="Matt.10-p7">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.10.40" data-parsed="Matt_10_40_0_0" data-passage="Matt 10.40" id="Matt.10.40"/><sup>40</sup>He that receiveth you receiveth me, and he that receiveth me receiveth him that sent me. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.10.41" data-parsed="Matt_10_41_0_0" data-passage="Matt 10.41" id="Matt.10.41"/><sup>41</sup>He that receiveth a prophet in the name of a prophet shall receive a prophet's reward: and he that receiveth a righteous man in the name of a righteous man shall receive a righteous man's reward. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.10.42" data-parsed="Matt_10_42_0_0" data-passage="Matt 10.42" id="Matt.10.42"/><sup>42</sup>And whosoever shall give to drink unto one of these little ones a cup of cold water only, in the name of a disciple, verily I say unto you he shall in no wise lose his reward.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>