<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Matthew 4</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Matthew 4</span></div><div data-next="Matt.5" data-prev="Matt.3" data-progress="77.58%" data-shorttitle="" id="Matt.4" title="Matthew 4">
<h2 id="Matt.4-p0.1">4</h2>
<p id="Matt.4-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.4.1" data-parsed="Matt_4_1_0_0" data-passage="Matt 4.1" id="Matt.4.1"/><sup>1</sup>Then was Jesus led up of the Spirit into the wilderness to be tempted of the devil. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.4.2" data-parsed="Matt_4_2_0_0" data-passage="Matt 4.2" id="Matt.4.2"/><sup>2</sup>And when he had fasted forty days and forty nights, he afterward hungered. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.4.3" data-parsed="Matt_4_3_0_0" data-passage="Matt 4.3" id="Matt.4.3"/><sup>3</sup>And the tempter came and said unto him, If thou art the Son of God, command that these stones become bread. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.4.4" data-parsed="Matt_4_4_0_0" data-passage="Matt 4.4" id="Matt.4.4"/><sup>4</sup>But he answered and said, It is written, Man shall not live by bread alone, but by every word that proceedeth out of the mouth of God. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.4.5" data-parsed="Matt_4_5_0_0" data-passage="Matt 4.5" id="Matt.4.5"/><sup>5</sup>Then the devil taketh him into the holy city; and he set him on the pinnacle of the temple, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.4.6" data-parsed="Matt_4_6_0_0" data-passage="Matt 4.6" id="Matt.4.6"/><sup>6</sup>and saith unto him, If thou art the Son of God, cast thyself down: for it is written,</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Matt.4-p2">
He shall give his angels charge concerning thee:</p>
<p id="Matt.4-p3">
and,</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Matt.4-p4">
On their hands they shall bear thee up,</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Matt.4-p5">
Lest haply thou dash thy foot against a stone.</p>
<p id="Matt.4-p6">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.4.7" data-parsed="Matt_4_7_0_0" data-passage="Matt 4.7" id="Matt.4.7"/><sup>7</sup>Jesus said unto him, Again it is written, Thou shalt not make trial of the Lord thy God. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.4.8" data-parsed="Matt_4_8_0_0" data-passage="Matt 4.8" id="Matt.4.8"/><sup>8</sup>Again, the devil taketh him unto an exceeding high mountain, and showeth him all the kingdoms of the world, and the glory of them; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.4.9" data-parsed="Matt_4_9_0_0" data-passage="Matt 4.9" id="Matt.4.9"/><sup>9</sup>and he said unto him, All these things will I give thee, if thou wilt fall down and worship me. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.4.10" data-parsed="Matt_4_10_0_0" data-passage="Matt 4.10" id="Matt.4.10"/><sup>10</sup>Then saith Jesus unto him, Get thee hence, Satan: for it is written, Thou shalt worship the Lord thy God, and him only shalt thou serve. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.4.11" data-parsed="Matt_4_11_0_0" data-passage="Matt 4.11" id="Matt.4.11"/><sup>11</sup>Then the devil leaveth him; and behold, angels came and ministered unto him.</p>
<p id="Matt.4-p7">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.4.12" data-parsed="Matt_4_12_0_0" data-passage="Matt 4.12" id="Matt.4.12"/><sup>12</sup>Now when he heard that John was delivered up, he withdrew into Galilee;

<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.4.13" data-parsed="Matt_4_13_0_0" data-passage="Matt 4.13" id="Matt.4.13"/><sup>13</sup>and leaving Nazareth, he came and dwelt in Capernaum, which is by the sea, in the borders of Zebulun and Naphtali: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.4.14" data-parsed="Matt_4_14_0_0" data-passage="Matt 4.14" id="Matt.4.14"/><sup>14</sup>that it might be fulfilled which was spoken through Isaiah the prophet, saying,</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Matt.4-p8">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.4.15" data-parsed="Matt_4_15_0_0" data-passage="Matt 4.15" id="Matt.4.15"/><sup>15</sup>The land of Zebulun and the land of Naphtali,</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Matt.4-p9">
Toward the sea, beyond the Jordan,</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Matt.4-p10">
Galilee of the Gentiles,</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Matt.4-p11">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.4.16" data-parsed="Matt_4_16_0_0" data-passage="Matt 4.16" id="Matt.4.16"/><sup>16</sup>The people that sat in darkness</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Matt.4-p12">
Saw a great light,</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Matt.4-p13">
And to them that sat in the region and shadow of death,</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Matt.4-p14">
To them did light spring up.</p>
<p id="Matt.4-p15">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.4.17" data-parsed="Matt_4_17_0_0" data-passage="Matt 4.17" id="Matt.4.17"/><sup>17</sup>From that time began Jesus to preach, and to say, Repent ye; for the kingdom of heaven is at hand.</p>
<p id="Matt.4-p16">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.4.18" data-parsed="Matt_4_18_0_0" data-passage="Matt 4.18" id="Matt.4.18"/><sup>18</sup>And walking by the sea of Galilee, he saw two brethren, Simon who is called Peter, and Andrew his brother, casting a net into the sea; for they were fishers. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.4.19" data-parsed="Matt_4_19_0_0" data-passage="Matt 4.19" id="Matt.4.19"/><sup>19</sup>And he saith unto them, Come ye after me, and I will make you fishers of men. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.4.20" data-parsed="Matt_4_20_0_0" data-passage="Matt 4.20" id="Matt.4.20"/><sup>20</sup>And they straightway left the nets, and followed him. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.4.21" data-parsed="Matt_4_21_0_0" data-passage="Matt 4.21" id="Matt.4.21"/><sup>21</sup>And going on from thence he saw two other brethren, James the <i>son</i> of Zebedee, and John his brother, in the boat with Zebedee their father, mending their nets; and he called them. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.4.22" data-parsed="Matt_4_22_0_0" data-passage="Matt 4.22" id="Matt.4.22"/><sup>22</sup>And they straightway left the boat and their father, and followed him.</p>
<p id="Matt.4-p17">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.4.23" data-parsed="Matt_4_23_0_0" data-passage="Matt 4.23" id="Matt.4.23"/><sup>23</sup>And Jesus went about in all Galilee, teaching in their synagogues, and preaching the gospel of the kingdom, and healing all manner of disease and all manner of sickness among the people. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.4.24" data-parsed="Matt_4_24_0_0" data-passage="Matt 4.24" id="Matt.4.24"/><sup>24</sup>And the report of him went forth into all Syria: and they brought unto him all that were sick, holden with divers diseases and torments, possessed with demons, and epileptic, and palsied; and he healed them. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.4.25" data-parsed="Matt_4_25_0_0" data-passage="Matt 4.25" id="Matt.4.25"/><sup>25</sup>And there followed him great multitudes from Galilee and Decapolis and Jerusalem and Judaea and <i>from</i> beyond the Jordan.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>