<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Matthew 9</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Matthew 9</span></div><div data-next="Matt.10" data-prev="Matt.8" data-progress="78.05%" data-shorttitle="" id="Matt.9" title="Matthew 9">
<h2 id="Matt.9-p0.1">9</h2>
<p id="Matt.9-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.9.1" data-parsed="Matt_9_1_0_0" data-passage="Matt 9.1" id="Matt.9.1"/><sup>1</sup>And he entered into a boat, and crossed over, and came into his own city. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.9.2" data-parsed="Matt_9_2_0_0" data-passage="Matt 9.2" id="Matt.9.2"/><sup>2</sup>And behold, they brought to him a man sick of the palsy, lying on a bed: and Jesus seeing their faith said unto the sick of the palsy, Son, be of good cheer; thy sins are forgiven. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.9.3" data-parsed="Matt_9_3_0_0" data-passage="Matt 9.3" id="Matt.9.3"/><sup>3</sup>And behold, certain of the scribes said within themselves, This man blasphemeth. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.9.4" data-parsed="Matt_9_4_0_0" data-passage="Matt 9.4" id="Matt.9.4"/><sup>4</sup>And Jesus knowing their thoughts said, Wherefore think ye evil in your hearts? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.9.5" data-parsed="Matt_9_5_0_0" data-passage="Matt 9.5" id="Matt.9.5"/><sup>5</sup>For which is easier, to say, Thy sins are forgiven; or to say, Arise, and walk? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.9.6" data-parsed="Matt_9_6_0_0" data-passage="Matt 9.6" id="Matt.9.6"/><sup>6</sup>But that ye may know that the Son of man hath authority on earth to forgive sins
(then saith he to the sick of the palsy), Arise, and take up thy bed, and go up unto thy house. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.9.7" data-parsed="Matt_9_7_0_0" data-passage="Matt 9.7" id="Matt.9.7"/><sup>7</sup>And he arose, and departed to his house. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.9.8" data-parsed="Matt_9_8_0_0" data-passage="Matt 9.8" id="Matt.9.8"/><sup>8</sup>But when the multitudes saw it, they were afraid, and glorified God, who had given such authority unto men.</p>
<p id="Matt.9-p2">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.9.9" data-parsed="Matt_9_9_0_0" data-passage="Matt 9.9" id="Matt.9.9"/><sup>9</sup>And as Jesus passed by from thence, he saw a man, called Matthew,
sitting at the place of toll: and he saith unto him, Follow me. And he arose,
and followed him.</p>
<p id="Matt.9-p3">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.9.10" data-parsed="Matt_9_10_0_0" data-passage="Matt 9.10" id="Matt.9.10"/><sup>10</sup>And it came to pass, as he sat at meat in the house, behold, many publicans and sinners came and sat down with Jesus and his disciples.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.9.11" data-parsed="Matt_9_11_0_0" data-passage="Matt 9.11" id="Matt.9.11"/><sup>11</sup>And when the Pharisees saw it, they said unto his disciples, Why eateth your Teacher with the publicans and sinners? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.9.12" data-parsed="Matt_9_12_0_0" data-passage="Matt 9.12" id="Matt.9.12"/><sup>12</sup>But when he heard it, he said, They that are whole have no need of a physician, but they that are sick. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.9.13" data-parsed="Matt_9_13_0_0" data-passage="Matt 9.13" id="Matt.9.13"/><sup>13</sup>But go ye and learn what <i>this</i> meaneth, I desire mercy,
and not sacrifice, for I came not to call the righteous, but sinners.</p>
<p id="Matt.9-p4">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.9.14" data-parsed="Matt_9_14_0_0" data-passage="Matt 9.14" id="Matt.9.14"/><sup>14</sup>Then come to him the disciples of John, saying, Why do we and the Pharisees fast oft, but thy disciples fast not? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.9.15" data-parsed="Matt_9_15_0_0" data-passage="Matt 9.15" id="Matt.9.15"/><sup>15</sup>And Jesus said unto them, Can the sons of the bridechamber mourn, as long as the bridegroom is with them? but the days will come, when the bridegroom shall be taken away from them, and then will they fast. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.9.16" data-parsed="Matt_9_16_0_0" data-passage="Matt 9.16" id="Matt.9.16"/><sup>16</sup>And no man putteth a piece of undressed cloth upon an old garment; for that which should fill it up taketh from the garment, and a worse rent is made. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.9.17" data-parsed="Matt_9_17_0_0" data-passage="Matt 9.17" id="Matt.9.17"/><sup>17</sup>Neither do <i>men</i> put new wine into old wine-skins: else the skins burst, and the wine is spilled,
and the skins perish: but they put new wine into fresh wine-skins, and both are preserved.</p>
<p id="Matt.9-p5">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.9.18" data-parsed="Matt_9_18_0_0" data-passage="Matt 9.18" id="Matt.9.18"/><sup>18</sup>While he spake these things unto them, behold, there came a ruler, and worshipped him, saying, My daughter is even now dead: but come and lay thy hand upon her, and she shall live. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.9.19" data-parsed="Matt_9_19_0_0" data-passage="Matt 9.19" id="Matt.9.19"/><sup>19</sup>And Jesus arose, and followed him,
and <i>so did</i> his disciples. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.9.20" data-parsed="Matt_9_20_0_0" data-passage="Matt 9.20" id="Matt.9.20"/><sup>20</sup>And behold, a woman, who had an issue of blood twelve years, came behind him, and touched the border of his garment: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.9.21" data-parsed="Matt_9_21_0_0" data-passage="Matt 9.21" id="Matt.9.21"/><sup>21</sup>for she said within herself, If I do but touch his garment, I shall be made whole. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.9.22" data-parsed="Matt_9_22_0_0" data-passage="Matt 9.22" id="Matt.9.22"/><sup>22</sup>But Jesus turning and seeing her said, Daughter,
be of good cheer; thy faith hath made thee whole. And the woman was made whole from that hour. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.9.23" data-parsed="Matt_9_23_0_0" data-passage="Matt 9.23" id="Matt.9.23"/><sup>23</sup>And when Jesus came into the ruler's house, and saw the flute-players, and the crowd making a tumult, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.9.24" data-parsed="Matt_9_24_0_0" data-passage="Matt 9.24" id="Matt.9.24"/><sup>24</sup>he said, Give place: for the damsel is not dead, but sleepeth. And they laughed him to scorn. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.9.25" data-parsed="Matt_9_25_0_0" data-passage="Matt 9.25" id="Matt.9.25"/><sup>25</sup>But when the crowd was put forth, he entered in, and took her by the hand; and the damsel arose. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.9.26" data-parsed="Matt_9_26_0_0" data-passage="Matt 9.26" id="Matt.9.26"/><sup>26</sup>And the fame hereof went forth into all that land.</p>
<p id="Matt.9-p6">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.9.27" data-parsed="Matt_9_27_0_0" data-passage="Matt 9.27" id="Matt.9.27"/><sup>27</sup>And as Jesus passed by from thence, two blind men followed him, crying out, and saying, Have mercy on us, thou son of David. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.9.28" data-parsed="Matt_9_28_0_0" data-passage="Matt 9.28" id="Matt.9.28"/><sup>28</sup>And when he was come into the house, the blind men came to him: and Jesus saith unto them,
Believe ye that I am able to do this? They say unto him, Yea, Lord.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.9.29" data-parsed="Matt_9_29_0_0" data-passage="Matt 9.29" id="Matt.9.29"/><sup>29</sup>Then touched he their eyes, saying, According to your faith be it done unto you. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.9.30" data-parsed="Matt_9_30_0_0" data-passage="Matt 9.30" id="Matt.9.30"/><sup>30</sup>And their eyes were opened. And Jesus strictly charged them,
saying, See that no man know it. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.9.31" data-parsed="Matt_9_31_0_0" data-passage="Matt 9.31" id="Matt.9.31"/><sup>31</sup>But they went forth, and spread abroad his fame in all that land.</p>
<p id="Matt.9-p7">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.9.32" data-parsed="Matt_9_32_0_0" data-passage="Matt 9.32" id="Matt.9.32"/><sup>32</sup>And as they went forth, behold, there was brought to him a dumb man possessed with a demon. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.9.33" data-parsed="Matt_9_33_0_0" data-passage="Matt 9.33" id="Matt.9.33"/><sup>33</sup>And when the demon was cast out, the dumb man spake: and the multitudes marvelled, saying, It was never so seen in Israel.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.9.34" data-parsed="Matt_9_34_0_0" data-passage="Matt 9.34" id="Matt.9.34"/><sup>34</sup>But the Pharisees said, By the prince of the demons casteth he out demons.</p>
<p id="Matt.9-p8">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.9.35" data-parsed="Matt_9_35_0_0" data-passage="Matt 9.35" id="Matt.9.35"/><sup>35</sup>And Jesus went about all the cities and the villages, teaching in their synagogues, and preaching the gospel of the kingdom, and healing all manner of disease and all manner of sickness. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.9.36" data-parsed="Matt_9_36_0_0" data-passage="Matt 9.36" id="Matt.9.36"/><sup>36</sup>But when he saw the multitudes,
he was moved with compassion for them, because they were distressed and scattered, as sheep not having a shepherd. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.9.37" data-parsed="Matt_9_37_0_0" data-passage="Matt 9.37" id="Matt.9.37"/><sup>37</sup>Then saith he unto his disciples, The harvest indeed is plenteous, but the laborers are few.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.9.38" data-parsed="Matt_9_38_0_0" data-passage="Matt 9.38" id="Matt.9.38"/><sup>38</sup>Pray ye therefore the Lord of the harvest, that he send forth laborers into his harvest.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>