<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Matthew 25</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Matthew 25</span></div><div data-next="Matt.26" data-prev="Matt.24" data-progress="79.79%" data-shorttitle="" id="Matt.25" title="Matthew 25">
<h2 id="Matt.25-p0.1">25</h2>
<p id="Matt.25-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.25.1" data-parsed="Matt_25_1_0_0" data-passage="Matt 25.1" id="Matt.25.1"/><sup>1</sup>Then shall the kingdom of heaven be likened unto ten virgins, who took their lamps, and went forth to meet the bridegroom. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.25.2" data-parsed="Matt_25_2_0_0" data-passage="Matt 25.2" id="Matt.25.2"/><sup>2</sup>And five of them were foolish, and five were wise. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.25.3" data-parsed="Matt_25_3_0_0" data-passage="Matt 25.3" id="Matt.25.3"/><sup>3</sup>For the foolish, when they took their lamps, took no oil with them: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.25.4" data-parsed="Matt_25_4_0_0" data-passage="Matt 25.4" id="Matt.25.4"/><sup>4</sup>but the wise took oil in their vessels with their lamps. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.25.5" data-parsed="Matt_25_5_0_0" data-passage="Matt 25.5" id="Matt.25.5"/><sup>5</sup>Now while the bridegroom tarried, they all slumbered and slept. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.25.6" data-parsed="Matt_25_6_0_0" data-passage="Matt 25.6" id="Matt.25.6"/><sup>6</sup>But at midnight there is a cry, Behold, the bridegroom! Come ye forth to meet him. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.25.7" data-parsed="Matt_25_7_0_0" data-passage="Matt 25.7" id="Matt.25.7"/><sup>7</sup>Then all those virgins arose, and trimmed their lamps. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.25.8" data-parsed="Matt_25_8_0_0" data-passage="Matt 25.8" id="Matt.25.8"/><sup>8</sup>And the foolish said unto the wise, Give us of your oil; for our lamps are going out. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.25.9" data-parsed="Matt_25_9_0_0" data-passage="Matt 25.9" id="Matt.25.9"/><sup>9</sup>But the wise answered, saying,
Peradventure there will not be enough for us and you: go ye rather to them that sell, and buy for yourselves. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.25.10" data-parsed="Matt_25_10_0_0" data-passage="Matt 25.10" id="Matt.25.10"/><sup>10</sup>And while they went away to buy, the bridegroom came; and they that were ready went in with him to the marriage feast: and the door was shut. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.25.11" data-parsed="Matt_25_11_0_0" data-passage="Matt 25.11" id="Matt.25.11"/><sup>11</sup>Afterward came also the other virgins,
saying, Lord, Lord, open to us. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.25.12" data-parsed="Matt_25_12_0_0" data-passage="Matt 25.12" id="Matt.25.12"/><sup>12</sup>But he answered and said, Verily I say unto you, I know you not. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.25.13" data-parsed="Matt_25_13_0_0" data-passage="Matt 25.13" id="Matt.25.13"/><sup>13</sup>Watch therefore, for ye know not the day nor the hour.</p>
<p id="Matt.25-p2">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.25.14" data-parsed="Matt_25_14_0_0" data-passage="Matt 25.14" id="Matt.25.14"/><sup>14</sup>For <i>it is</i> as <i>when</i> a man, going into another country,
called his own servants, and delivered unto them his goods. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.25.15" data-parsed="Matt_25_15_0_0" data-passage="Matt 25.15" id="Matt.25.15"/><sup>15</sup>And unto one he gave five talents, to another two, to another one; to each according to his several ability; and he went on his journey. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.25.16" data-parsed="Matt_25_16_0_0" data-passage="Matt 25.16" id="Matt.25.16"/><sup>16</sup>Straightway he that received the five talents went and traded with them, and made other five talents. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.25.17" data-parsed="Matt_25_17_0_0" data-passage="Matt 25.17" id="Matt.25.17"/><sup>17</sup>In like manner he also that <i>received</i> the two gained other two. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.25.18" data-parsed="Matt_25_18_0_0" data-passage="Matt 25.18" id="Matt.25.18"/><sup>18</sup>But he that received the one went away and digged in the earth, and hid his lord's money. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.25.19" data-parsed="Matt_25_19_0_0" data-passage="Matt 25.19" id="Matt.25.19"/><sup>19</sup>Now after a long time the lord of those servants cometh, and maketh a reckoning with them. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.25.20" data-parsed="Matt_25_20_0_0" data-passage="Matt 25.20" id="Matt.25.20"/><sup>20</sup>And he that received the five talents came and brought other five talents, saying, Lord,
thou deliveredst unto me five talents: lo, I have gained other five talents.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.25.21" data-parsed="Matt_25_21_0_0" data-passage="Matt 25.21" id="Matt.25.21"/><sup>21</sup>His lord said unto him, Well done, good and faithful servant: thou hast been faithful over a few things, I will set thee over many things; enter thou into the joy of thy lord. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.25.22" data-parsed="Matt_25_22_0_0" data-passage="Matt 25.22" id="Matt.25.22"/><sup>22</sup>And he also that <i>received</i> the two talents came and said, Lord, thou deliveredst unto me two talents: lo, I have gained other two talents. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.25.23" data-parsed="Matt_25_23_0_0" data-passage="Matt 25.23" id="Matt.25.23"/><sup>23</sup>His lord said unto him, Well done, good and faithful servant: thou hast been faithful over a few things, I will set thee over many things; enter thou into the joy of thy lord. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.25.24" data-parsed="Matt_25_24_0_0" data-passage="Matt 25.24" id="Matt.25.24"/><sup>24</sup>And he also that had received the one talent came and said, Lord, I knew thee that thou art a hard man, reaping where thou didst not sow, and gathering where thou didst not scatter; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.25.25" data-parsed="Matt_25_25_0_0" data-passage="Matt 25.25" id="Matt.25.25"/><sup>25</sup>and I was afraid, and went away and hid thy talent in the earth: lo, thou hast thine own. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.25.26" data-parsed="Matt_25_26_0_0" data-passage="Matt 25.26" id="Matt.25.26"/><sup>26</sup>But his lord answered and said unto him, Thou wicked and slothful servant, thou knewest that I reap where I sowed not, and gather where I did not scatter; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.25.27" data-parsed="Matt_25_27_0_0" data-passage="Matt 25.27" id="Matt.25.27"/><sup>27</sup>thou oughtest therefore to have put my money to the bankers, and at my coming I should have received back mine own with interest. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.25.28" data-parsed="Matt_25_28_0_0" data-passage="Matt 25.28" id="Matt.25.28"/><sup>28</sup>Take ye away therefore the talent from him, and give it unto him that hath the ten talents. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.25.29" data-parsed="Matt_25_29_0_0" data-passage="Matt 25.29" id="Matt.25.29"/><sup>29</sup>For unto every one that hath shall be given, and he shall have abundance: but from him that hath not, even that which he hath shall be taken away. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.25.30" data-parsed="Matt_25_30_0_0" data-passage="Matt 25.30" id="Matt.25.30"/><sup>30</sup>And cast ye out the unprofitable servant into the outer darkness: there shall be the weeping and the gnashing of teeth.</p>
<p id="Matt.25-p3">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.25.31" data-parsed="Matt_25_31_0_0" data-passage="Matt 25.31" id="Matt.25.31"/><sup>31</sup>But when the Son of man shall come in his glory, and all the angels with him, then shall he sit on the throne of his glory: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.25.32" data-parsed="Matt_25_32_0_0" data-passage="Matt 25.32" id="Matt.25.32"/><sup>32</sup>and before him shall be gathered all the nations: and he shall separate them one from another, as the shepherd separateth the sheep from the goats; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.25.33" data-parsed="Matt_25_33_0_0" data-passage="Matt 25.33" id="Matt.25.33"/><sup>33</sup>and he shall set the sheep on his right hand, but the goats on the left. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.25.34" data-parsed="Matt_25_34_0_0" data-passage="Matt 25.34" id="Matt.25.34"/><sup>34</sup>Then shall the King say unto them on his right hand, Come, ye blessed of my Father, inherit the kingdom prepared for you from the foundation of the world: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.25.35" data-parsed="Matt_25_35_0_0" data-passage="Matt 25.35" id="Matt.25.35"/><sup>35</sup>for I was hungry, and ye gave me to eat; I was thirsty, and ye gave me drink; I was a stranger, and ye took me in; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.25.36" data-parsed="Matt_25_36_0_0" data-passage="Matt 25.36" id="Matt.25.36"/><sup>36</sup>naked, and ye clothed me; I was sick, and ye visited me; I was in prison, and ye came unto me. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.25.37" data-parsed="Matt_25_37_0_0" data-passage="Matt 25.37" id="Matt.25.37"/><sup>37</sup>Then shall the righteous answer him, saying, Lord, when saw we thee hungry, and fed thee? or athirst, and gave thee drink? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.25.38" data-parsed="Matt_25_38_0_0" data-passage="Matt 25.38" id="Matt.25.38"/><sup>38</sup>And when saw we thee a stranger, and took thee in? or naked, and clothed thee? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.25.39" data-parsed="Matt_25_39_0_0" data-passage="Matt 25.39" id="Matt.25.39"/><sup>39</sup>And when saw we thee sick, or in prison, and came unto thee? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.25.40" data-parsed="Matt_25_40_0_0" data-passage="Matt 25.40" id="Matt.25.40"/><sup>40</sup>And the King shall answer and say unto them, Verily I say unto you, Inasmuch as ye did it unto one of these my brethren, <i>even</i> these least, ye did it unto me.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.25.41" data-parsed="Matt_25_41_0_0" data-passage="Matt 25.41" id="Matt.25.41"/><sup>41</sup>Then shall he say also unto them on the left hand, Depart from me, ye cursed, into the eternal fire which is prepared for the devil and his angels:

<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.25.42" data-parsed="Matt_25_42_0_0" data-passage="Matt 25.42" id="Matt.25.42"/><sup>42</sup>for I was hungry, and ye did not give me to eat; I was thirsty, and ye gave me no drink; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.25.43" data-parsed="Matt_25_43_0_0" data-passage="Matt 25.43" id="Matt.25.43"/><sup>43</sup>I was a stranger, and ye took me not in; naked, and ye clothed me not; sick, and in prison, and ye visited me not. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.25.44" data-parsed="Matt_25_44_0_0" data-passage="Matt 25.44" id="Matt.25.44"/><sup>44</sup>Then shall they also answer, saying, Lord, when saw we thee hungry, or athirst, or a stranger, or naked, or sick, or in prison, and did not minister unto thee?

<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.25.45" data-parsed="Matt_25_45_0_0" data-passage="Matt 25.45" id="Matt.25.45"/><sup>45</sup>Then shall he answer them, saying, Verily I say unto you, Inasmuch as ye did it not unto one of these least, ye did it not unto me. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.25.46" data-parsed="Matt_25_46_0_0" data-passage="Matt 25.46" id="Matt.25.46"/><sup>46</sup>And these shall go away into eternal punishment: but the righteous into eternal life.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>