<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Matthew 13</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Matthew 13</span></div><div data-next="Matt.14" data-prev="Matt.12" data-progress="78.49%" data-shorttitle="" id="Matt.13" title="Matthew 13">
<h2 id="Matt.13-p0.1">13</h2>
<p id="Matt.13-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.13.1" data-parsed="Matt_13_1_0_0" data-passage="Matt 13.1" id="Matt.13.1"/><sup>1</sup>On that day went Jesus out of the house, and sat by the sea side.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.13.2" data-parsed="Matt_13_2_0_0" data-passage="Matt 13.2" id="Matt.13.2"/><sup>2</sup>And there were gathered unto him great multitudes, so that he entered into a boat, and sat; and all the multitude stood on the beach. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.13.3" data-parsed="Matt_13_3_0_0" data-passage="Matt 13.3" id="Matt.13.3"/><sup>3</sup>And he spake to them many things in parables, saying, Behold, the sower went forth to sow; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.13.4" data-parsed="Matt_13_4_0_0" data-passage="Matt 13.4" id="Matt.13.4"/><sup>4</sup>and as he sowed, some <i>seeds</i> fell by the way side, and the birds came and devoured them: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.13.5" data-parsed="Matt_13_5_0_0" data-passage="Matt 13.5" id="Matt.13.5"/><sup>5</sup>and others fell upon the rocky places,
where they had not much earth: and straightway they sprang up, because they had no deepness of earth: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.13.6" data-parsed="Matt_13_6_0_0" data-passage="Matt 13.6" id="Matt.13.6"/><sup>6</sup>and when the sun was risen, they were scorched; and because they had no root, they withered away. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.13.7" data-parsed="Matt_13_7_0_0" data-passage="Matt 13.7" id="Matt.13.7"/><sup>7</sup>And others fell upon the thorns; and the thorns grew up and choked them: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.13.8" data-parsed="Matt_13_8_0_0" data-passage="Matt 13.8" id="Matt.13.8"/><sup>8</sup>and others fell upon the good ground, and yielded fruit, some a hundredfold, some sixty,
some thirty. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.13.9" data-parsed="Matt_13_9_0_0" data-passage="Matt 13.9" id="Matt.13.9"/><sup>9</sup>He that hath ears, let him hear.</p>
<p id="Matt.13-p2">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.13.10" data-parsed="Matt_13_10_0_0" data-passage="Matt 13.10" id="Matt.13.10"/><sup>10</sup>And the disciples came, and said unto him, Why speakest thou unto them in parables? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.13.11" data-parsed="Matt_13_11_0_0" data-passage="Matt 13.11" id="Matt.13.11"/><sup>11</sup>And he answered and said unto them, Unto you it is given to know the mysteries of the kingdom of heaven, but to them it is not given.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.13.12" data-parsed="Matt_13_12_0_0" data-passage="Matt 13.12" id="Matt.13.12"/><sup>12</sup>For whosoever hath, to him shall be given, and he shall have abundance:
but whosoever hath not, from him shall be taken away even that which he hath.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.13.13" data-parsed="Matt_13_13_0_0" data-passage="Matt 13.13" id="Matt.13.13"/><sup>13</sup>Therefore speak I to them in parables; because seeing they see not, and hearing they hear not, neither do they understand. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.13.14" data-parsed="Matt_13_14_0_0" data-passage="Matt 13.14" id="Matt.13.14"/><sup>14</sup>And unto them is fulfilled the prophecy of Isaiah, which saith,</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Matt.13-p3">
By hearing ye shall hear, and shall in no wise understand;</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Matt.13-p4">
And seeing ye shall see, and shall in no wise perceive:</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Matt.13-p5">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.13.15" data-parsed="Matt_13_15_0_0" data-passage="Matt 13.15" id="Matt.13.15"/><sup>15</sup>For this people's heart is waxed gross,</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Matt.13-p6">
And their ears are dull of hearing,</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Matt.13-p7">
And their eyes they have closed;</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Matt.13-p8">
Lest haply they should perceive with their eyes,</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Matt.13-p9">
And hear with their ears,</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Matt.13-p10">
And understand with their heart,</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Matt.13-p11">
And should turn again,</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Matt.13-p12">
And I should heal them.</p>
<p id="Matt.13-p13">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.13.16" data-parsed="Matt_13_16_0_0" data-passage="Matt 13.16" id="Matt.13.16"/><sup>16</sup>But blessed are your eyes, for they see; and your ears, for they hear.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.13.17" data-parsed="Matt_13_17_0_0" data-passage="Matt 13.17" id="Matt.13.17"/><sup>17</sup>For verily I say unto you, that many prophets and righteous men desired to see the things which ye see, and saw them not; and to hear the things which ye hear, and heard them not. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.13.18" data-parsed="Matt_13_18_0_0" data-passage="Matt 13.18" id="Matt.13.18"/><sup>18</sup>Hear then ye the parable of the sower. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.13.19" data-parsed="Matt_13_19_0_0" data-passage="Matt 13.19" id="Matt.13.19"/><sup>19</sup>When any one heareth the word of the kingdom, and understandeth it not, <i>then</i> cometh the evil <i>one</i>, and snatcheth away that which hath been sown in his heart. This is he that was sown by the way side.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.13.20" data-parsed="Matt_13_20_0_0" data-passage="Matt 13.20" id="Matt.13.20"/><sup>20</sup>And he that was sown upon the rocky places, this is he that heareth the word, and straightway with joy receiveth it; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.13.21" data-parsed="Matt_13_21_0_0" data-passage="Matt 13.21" id="Matt.13.21"/><sup>21</sup>yet hath he not root in himself, but endureth for a while; and when tribulation or persecution ariseth because of the word, straightway he stumbleth. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.13.22" data-parsed="Matt_13_22_0_0" data-passage="Matt 13.22" id="Matt.13.22"/><sup>22</sup>And he that was sown among the thorns, this is he that heareth the word; and the care of the world, and the deceitfulness of riches, choke the word, and he becometh unfruitful. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.13.23" data-parsed="Matt_13_23_0_0" data-passage="Matt 13.23" id="Matt.13.23"/><sup>23</sup>And he that was sown upon the good ground, this is he that heareth the word, and understandeth it; who verily beareth fruit, and bringeth forth, some a hundredfold, some sixty, some thirty.</p>
<p id="Matt.13-p14">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.13.24" data-parsed="Matt_13_24_0_0" data-passage="Matt 13.24" id="Matt.13.24"/><sup>24</sup>Another parable set he before them, saying, The kingdom of heaven is likened unto a man that sowed good seed in his field: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.13.25" data-parsed="Matt_13_25_0_0" data-passage="Matt 13.25" id="Matt.13.25"/><sup>25</sup>but while men slept, his enemy came and sowed tares also among the wheat, and went away.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.13.26" data-parsed="Matt_13_26_0_0" data-passage="Matt 13.26" id="Matt.13.26"/><sup>26</sup>But when the blade sprang up and brought forth fruit, then appeared the tares also. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.13.27" data-parsed="Matt_13_27_0_0" data-passage="Matt 13.27" id="Matt.13.27"/><sup>27</sup>And the servants of the householder came and said unto him,
Sir, didst thou not sow good seed in thy field? whence then hath it tares?

<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.13.28" data-parsed="Matt_13_28_0_0" data-passage="Matt 13.28" id="Matt.13.28"/><sup>28</sup>And he said unto them, An enemy hath done this. And the servants say unto him, Wilt thou then that we go and gather them up? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.13.29" data-parsed="Matt_13_29_0_0" data-passage="Matt 13.29" id="Matt.13.29"/><sup>29</sup>But he saith,
Nay; lest haply while ye gather up the tares, ye root up the wheat with them.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.13.30" data-parsed="Matt_13_30_0_0" data-passage="Matt 13.30" id="Matt.13.30"/><sup>30</sup>Let both grow together until the harvest: and in the time of the harvest I will say to the reapers, Gather up first the tares, and bind them in bundles to burn them; but gather the wheat into my barn.</p>
<p id="Matt.13-p15">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.13.31" data-parsed="Matt_13_31_0_0" data-passage="Matt 13.31" id="Matt.13.31"/><sup>31</sup>Another parable set he before them, saying, The kingdom of heaven is like unto a grain of mustard seed, which a man took, and sowed in his field:

<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.13.32" data-parsed="Matt_13_32_0_0" data-passage="Matt 13.32" id="Matt.13.32"/><sup>32</sup>which indeed is less than all seeds; but when it is grown, it is greater than the herbs, and becometh a tree, so that the birds of the heaven come and lodge in the branches thereof.</p>
<p id="Matt.13-p16">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.13.33" data-parsed="Matt_13_33_0_0" data-passage="Matt 13.33" id="Matt.13.33"/><sup>33</sup>Another parable spake he unto them; The kingdom of heaven is like unto leaven, which a woman took, and hid in three measures of meal, till it was all leavened.</p>
<p id="Matt.13-p17">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.13.34" data-parsed="Matt_13_34_0_0" data-passage="Matt 13.34" id="Matt.13.34"/><sup>34</sup>All these things spake Jesus in parables unto the multitudes; and without a parable spake he nothing unto them: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.13.35" data-parsed="Matt_13_35_0_0" data-passage="Matt 13.35" id="Matt.13.35"/><sup>35</sup>that it might be fulfilled which was spoken through the prophet, saying,</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Matt.13-p18">
I will open my mouth in parables;</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Matt.13-p19">
I will utter things hidden from the foundation of the world.</p>
<p id="Matt.13-p20">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.13.36" data-parsed="Matt_13_36_0_0" data-passage="Matt 13.36" id="Matt.13.36"/><sup>36</sup>Then he left the multitudes, and went into the house: and his disciples came unto him, saying, Explain unto us the parable of the tares of the field.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.13.37" data-parsed="Matt_13_37_0_0" data-passage="Matt 13.37" id="Matt.13.37"/><sup>37</sup>And he answered and said, He that soweth the good seed is the Son of man; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.13.38" data-parsed="Matt_13_38_0_0" data-passage="Matt 13.38" id="Matt.13.38"/><sup>38</sup>and the field is the world; and the good seed, these are the sons of the kingdom; and the tares are the sons of the evil <i>one</i>; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.13.39" data-parsed="Matt_13_39_0_0" data-passage="Matt 13.39" id="Matt.13.39"/><sup>39</sup>and the enemy that sowed them is the devil: and the harvest is the end of the world; and the reapers are angels. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.13.40" data-parsed="Matt_13_40_0_0" data-passage="Matt 13.40" id="Matt.13.40"/><sup>40</sup>As therefore the tares are gathered up and burned with fire; so shall it be in the end of the world. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.13.41" data-parsed="Matt_13_41_0_0" data-passage="Matt 13.41" id="Matt.13.41"/><sup>41</sup>The Son of man shall send forth his angels, and they shall gather out of his kingdom all things that cause stumbling, and them that do iniquity, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.13.42" data-parsed="Matt_13_42_0_0" data-passage="Matt 13.42" id="Matt.13.42"/><sup>42</sup>and shall cast them into the furnace of fire: there shall be the weeping and the gnashing of teeth. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.13.43" data-parsed="Matt_13_43_0_0" data-passage="Matt 13.43" id="Matt.13.43"/><sup>43</sup>Then shall the righteous shine forth as the sun in the kingdom of their Father. He that hath ears, let him hear.</p>
<p id="Matt.13-p21">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.13.44" data-parsed="Matt_13_44_0_0" data-passage="Matt 13.44" id="Matt.13.44"/><sup>44</sup>The kingdom of heaven is like unto a treasure hidden in the field;
which a man found, and hid; and in his joy he goeth and selleth all that he hath, and buyeth that field.</p>
<p id="Matt.13-p22">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.13.45" data-parsed="Matt_13_45_0_0" data-passage="Matt 13.45" id="Matt.13.45"/><sup>45</sup>Again, the kingdom of heaven is like unto a man that is a merchant seeking goodly pearls: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.13.46" data-parsed="Matt_13_46_0_0" data-passage="Matt 13.46" id="Matt.13.46"/><sup>46</sup>and having found one pearl of great price, he went and sold all that he had, and bought it.</p>
<p id="Matt.13-p23">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.13.47" data-parsed="Matt_13_47_0_0" data-passage="Matt 13.47" id="Matt.13.47"/><sup>47</sup>Again, the kingdom of heaven is like unto a net, that was cast into the sea, and gathered of every kind: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.13.48" data-parsed="Matt_13_48_0_0" data-passage="Matt 13.48" id="Matt.13.48"/><sup>48</sup>which, when it was filled, they drew up on the beach; and they sat down, and gathered the good into vessels, but the bad they cast away. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.13.49" data-parsed="Matt_13_49_0_0" data-passage="Matt 13.49" id="Matt.13.49"/><sup>49</sup>So shall it be in the end of the world: the angels shall come forth, and sever the wicked from among the righteous,

<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.13.50" data-parsed="Matt_13_50_0_0" data-passage="Matt 13.50" id="Matt.13.50"/><sup>50</sup>and shall cast them into the furnace of fire: there shall be the weeping and the gnashing of teeth.</p>
<p id="Matt.13-p24">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.13.51" data-parsed="Matt_13_51_0_0" data-passage="Matt 13.51" id="Matt.13.51"/><sup>51</sup>Have ye understood all these things? They say unto him, Yea. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.13.52" data-parsed="Matt_13_52_0_0" data-passage="Matt 13.52" id="Matt.13.52"/><sup>52</sup>And he said unto them, Therefore every scribe who hath been made a disciple to the kingdom of heaven is like unto a man that is a householder, who bringeth forth out of his treasure things new and old.</p>
<p id="Matt.13-p25">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.13.53" data-parsed="Matt_13_53_0_0" data-passage="Matt 13.53" id="Matt.13.53"/><sup>53</sup>And it came to pass, when Jesus had finished these parables, he departed thence.</p>
<p id="Matt.13-p26">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.13.54" data-parsed="Matt_13_54_0_0" data-passage="Matt 13.54" id="Matt.13.54"/><sup>54</sup>And coming into his own country he taught them in their synagogue,
insomuch that they were astonished, and said, Whence hath this man this wisdom, and these mighty works? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.13.55" data-parsed="Matt_13_55_0_0" data-passage="Matt 13.55" id="Matt.13.55"/><sup>55</sup>Is not this the carpenter's son? is not his mother called Mary? and his brethren, James, and Joseph, and Simon, and Judas? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.13.56" data-parsed="Matt_13_56_0_0" data-passage="Matt 13.56" id="Matt.13.56"/><sup>56</sup>And his sisters, are they not all with us? Whence then hath this man all these things? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.13.57" data-parsed="Matt_13_57_0_0" data-passage="Matt 13.57" id="Matt.13.57"/><sup>57</sup>And they were offended in him. But Jesus said unto them, A prophet is not without honor, save in his own country, and in his own house. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.13.58" data-parsed="Matt_13_58_0_0" data-passage="Matt 13.58" id="Matt.13.58"/><sup>58</sup>And he did not many mighty works there because of their unbelief.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>