<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Matthew 17</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Matthew 17</span></div><div data-next="Matt.18" data-prev="Matt.16" data-progress="78.94%" data-shorttitle="" id="Matt.17" title="Matthew 17">
<h2 id="Matt.17-p0.1">17</h2>
<p id="Matt.17-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.17.1" data-parsed="Matt_17_1_0_0" data-passage="Matt 17.1" id="Matt.17.1"/><sup>1</sup>And after six days Jesus taketh with him Peter, and James, and John his brother, and bringeth them up into a high mountain apart: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.17.2" data-parsed="Matt_17_2_0_0" data-passage="Matt 17.2" id="Matt.17.2"/><sup>2</sup>and he was transfigured before them; and his face did shine as the sun, and his garments became white as the light. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.17.3" data-parsed="Matt_17_3_0_0" data-passage="Matt 17.3" id="Matt.17.3"/><sup>3</sup>And behold, there appeared unto them Moses and Elijah talking with him. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.17.4" data-parsed="Matt_17_4_0_0" data-passage="Matt 17.4" id="Matt.17.4"/><sup>4</sup>And Peter answered, and said unto Jesus, Lord, it is good for us to be here: if thou wilt, I will make here three tabernacles; one for thee, and one for Moses, and one for Elijah.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.17.5" data-parsed="Matt_17_5_0_0" data-passage="Matt 17.5" id="Matt.17.5"/><sup>5</sup>While he was yet speaking, behold, a bright cloud overshadowed them: and behold, a voice out of the cloud, saying, This is my beloved Son, in whom I am well pleased; hear ye him. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.17.6" data-parsed="Matt_17_6_0_0" data-passage="Matt 17.6" id="Matt.17.6"/><sup>6</sup>And when the disciples heard it, they fell on their face, and were sore afraid. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.17.7" data-parsed="Matt_17_7_0_0" data-passage="Matt 17.7" id="Matt.17.7"/><sup>7</sup>And Jesus came and touched them and said, Arise, and be not afraid. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.17.8" data-parsed="Matt_17_8_0_0" data-passage="Matt 17.8" id="Matt.17.8"/><sup>8</sup>And lifting up their eyes, they saw no one, save Jesus only.</p>
<p id="Matt.17-p2">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.17.9" data-parsed="Matt_17_9_0_0" data-passage="Matt 17.9" id="Matt.17.9"/><sup>9</sup>And as they were coming down from the mountain, Jesus commanded them,
saying, Tell the vision to no man, until the Son of man be risen from the dead. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.17.10" data-parsed="Matt_17_10_0_0" data-passage="Matt 17.10" id="Matt.17.10"/><sup>10</sup>And his disciples asked him, saying, Why then say the scribes that Elijah must first come? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.17.11" data-parsed="Matt_17_11_0_0" data-passage="Matt 17.11" id="Matt.17.11"/><sup>11</sup>And he answered and said, Elijah indeed cometh, and shall restore all things: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.17.12" data-parsed="Matt_17_12_0_0" data-passage="Matt 17.12" id="Matt.17.12"/><sup>12</sup>but I say unto you, that Elijah is come already, and they knew him not, but did unto him whatsoever they would. Even so shall the Son of man also suffer of them. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.17.13" data-parsed="Matt_17_13_0_0" data-passage="Matt 17.13" id="Matt.17.13"/><sup>13</sup>Then understood the disciples that he spake unto them of John the Baptist.</p>
<p id="Matt.17-p3">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.17.14" data-parsed="Matt_17_14_0_0" data-passage="Matt 17.14" id="Matt.17.14"/><sup>14</sup>And when they were come to the multitude, there came to him a man,
kneeling to him, saying, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.17.15" data-parsed="Matt_17_15_0_0" data-passage="Matt 17.15" id="Matt.17.15"/><sup>15</sup>Lord, have mercy on my son: for he is epileptic, and suffereth grievously; for oft-times he falleth into the fire,
and off-times into the water. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.17.16" data-parsed="Matt_17_16_0_0" data-passage="Matt 17.16" id="Matt.17.16"/><sup>16</sup>And I brought him to thy disciples, and they could not cure him. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.17.17" data-parsed="Matt_17_17_0_0" data-passage="Matt 17.17" id="Matt.17.17"/><sup>17</sup>And Jesus answered and said, O faithless and perverse generation, how long shall I be with you? how long shall I bear with you? bring him hither to me. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.17.18" data-parsed="Matt_17_18_0_0" data-passage="Matt 17.18" id="Matt.17.18"/><sup>18</sup>And Jesus rebuked him; and the demon went out of him: and the boy was cured from that hour.</p>
<p id="Matt.17-p4">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.17.19" data-parsed="Matt_17_19_0_0" data-passage="Matt 17.19" id="Matt.17.19"/><sup>19</sup>Then came the disciples to Jesus apart, and said, Why could not we cast it out? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.17.20" data-parsed="Matt_17_20_0_0" data-passage="Matt 17.20" id="Matt.17.20"/><sup>20</sup>And he saith unto them, Because of your little faith: for verily I say unto you, If ye have faith as a grain of mustard seed, ye shall say unto this mountain, Remove hence to yonder place; and it shall remove;
and nothing shall be impossible unto you. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.17.21" data-parsed="Matt_17_21_0_0" data-passage="Matt 17.21" id="Matt.17.21"/><sup>21</sup><i>But this kind goeth not out save by prayer and fasting.</i></p>
<p id="Matt.17-p5">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.17.22" data-parsed="Matt_17_22_0_0" data-passage="Matt 17.22" id="Matt.17.22"/><sup>22</sup>And while they abode in Galilee, Jesus said unto them, The Son of man shall be delivered up into the hands of men; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.17.23" data-parsed="Matt_17_23_0_0" data-passage="Matt 17.23" id="Matt.17.23"/><sup>23</sup>and they shall kill him,
and the third day he shall be raised up. And they were exceeding sorry.</p>
<p id="Matt.17-p6">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.17.24" data-parsed="Matt_17_24_0_0" data-passage="Matt 17.24" id="Matt.17.24"/><sup>24</sup>And when they were come to Capernaum, they that received the half-shekel came to Peter, and said, Doth not your teacher pay the half-shekel? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.17.25" data-parsed="Matt_17_25_0_0" data-passage="Matt 17.25" id="Matt.17.25"/><sup>25</sup>He saith, Yea. And when he came into the house, Jesus spake first to him, saying, What thinkest thou, Simon? the kings of the earth, from whom do they receive toll or tribute? from their sons, or from strangers? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.17.26" data-parsed="Matt_17_26_0_0" data-passage="Matt 17.26" id="Matt.17.26"/><sup>26</sup>And when he said, From strangers, Jesus said unto him,
Therefore the sons are free. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.17.27" data-parsed="Matt_17_27_0_0" data-passage="Matt 17.27" id="Matt.17.27"/><sup>27</sup>But, lest we cause them to stumble, go thou to the sea, and cast a hook, and take up the fish that first cometh up;
and when thou hast opened his mouth, thou shalt find a shekel: that take, and give unto them for me and thee.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>