<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Matthew 19</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Matthew 19</span></div><div data-next="Matt.20" data-prev="Matt.18" data-progress="79.12%" data-shorttitle="" id="Matt.19" title="Matthew 19">
<h2 id="Matt.19-p0.1">19</h2>
<p id="Matt.19-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.19.1" data-parsed="Matt_19_1_0_0" data-passage="Matt 19.1" id="Matt.19.1"/><sup>1</sup>And it came to pass when Jesus had finished these words, he departed from Galilee, and came into the borders of Judaea beyond the Jordan;

<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.19.2" data-parsed="Matt_19_2_0_0" data-passage="Matt 19.2" id="Matt.19.2"/><sup>2</sup>and great multitudes followed him; and he healed them there.</p>
<p id="Matt.19-p2">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.19.3" data-parsed="Matt_19_3_0_0" data-passage="Matt 19.3" id="Matt.19.3"/><sup>3</sup>And there came unto him Pharisees, trying him, and saying, Is it lawful <i>for a man</i> to put away his wife for every cause? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.19.4" data-parsed="Matt_19_4_0_0" data-passage="Matt 19.4" id="Matt.19.4"/><sup>4</sup>And he answered and said, Have ye not read, that he who made <i>them</i> from the beginning made them male and female, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.19.5" data-parsed="Matt_19_5_0_0" data-passage="Matt 19.5" id="Matt.19.5"/><sup>5</sup>and said, For this cause shall a man leave his father and mother, and shall cleave to his wife; and the two shall become one flesh? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.19.6" data-parsed="Matt_19_6_0_0" data-passage="Matt 19.6" id="Matt.19.6"/><sup>6</sup>So that they are no more two, but one flesh. What therefore God hath joined together, let not man put asunder. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.19.7" data-parsed="Matt_19_7_0_0" data-passage="Matt 19.7" id="Matt.19.7"/><sup>7</sup>They say unto him,
Why then did Moses command to give a bill of divorcement, and to put <i>her</i> away? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.19.8" data-parsed="Matt_19_8_0_0" data-passage="Matt 19.8" id="Matt.19.8"/><sup>8</sup>He saith unto them, Moses for your hardness of heart suffered you to put away your wives: but from the beginning it hath not been so. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.19.9" data-parsed="Matt_19_9_0_0" data-passage="Matt 19.9" id="Matt.19.9"/><sup>9</sup>And I say unto you, Whosoever shall put away his wife, except for fornication, and shall marry another, committeth adultery: and he that marrieth her when she is put away committeth adultery. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.19.10" data-parsed="Matt_19_10_0_0" data-passage="Matt 19.10" id="Matt.19.10"/><sup>10</sup>The disciples say unto him, If the case of the man is so with his wife, it is not expedient to marry. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.19.11" data-parsed="Matt_19_11_0_0" data-passage="Matt 19.11" id="Matt.19.11"/><sup>11</sup>But he said unto them, Not all men can receive this saying,
but they to whom it is given. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.19.12" data-parsed="Matt_19_12_0_0" data-passage="Matt 19.12" id="Matt.19.12"/><sup>12</sup>For there are eunuchs, that were so born from their mother's womb: and there are eunuchs, that were made eunuchs by men: and there are eunuchs, that made themselves eunuchs for the kingdom of heaven's sake. He that is able to receive it, let him receive it.</p>
<p id="Matt.19-p3">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.19.13" data-parsed="Matt_19_13_0_0" data-passage="Matt 19.13" id="Matt.19.13"/><sup>13</sup>Then were there brought unto him little children, that he should lay his hands on them, and pray: and the disciples rebuked them. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.19.14" data-parsed="Matt_19_14_0_0" data-passage="Matt 19.14" id="Matt.19.14"/><sup>14</sup>But Jesus said, Suffer the little children, and forbid them not, to come unto me: for to such belongeth the kingdom of heaven. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.19.15" data-parsed="Matt_19_15_0_0" data-passage="Matt 19.15" id="Matt.19.15"/><sup>15</sup>And he laid his hands on them,
and departed thence.</p>
<p id="Matt.19-p4">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.19.16" data-parsed="Matt_19_16_0_0" data-passage="Matt 19.16" id="Matt.19.16"/><sup>16</sup>And behold, one came to him and said, Teacher, what good thing shall I do, that I may have eternal life? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.19.17" data-parsed="Matt_19_17_0_0" data-passage="Matt 19.17" id="Matt.19.17"/><sup>17</sup>And he said unto him, Why askest thou me concerning that which is good? One there is who is good: but if thou wouldest enter into life, keep the commandments. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.19.18" data-parsed="Matt_19_18_0_0" data-passage="Matt 19.18" id="Matt.19.18"/><sup>18</sup>He saith unto him,
Which? And Jesus said, Thou shalt not kill, Thou shalt not commit adultery,
Thou shalt not steal, Thou shalt not bear false witness, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.19.19" data-parsed="Matt_19_19_0_0" data-passage="Matt 19.19" id="Matt.19.19"/><sup>19</sup>Honor thy father and mother; and, Thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.19.20" data-parsed="Matt_19_20_0_0" data-passage="Matt 19.20" id="Matt.19.20"/><sup>20</sup>The young man saith unto him, All these things have I observed: what lack I yet?

<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.19.21" data-parsed="Matt_19_21_0_0" data-passage="Matt 19.21" id="Matt.19.21"/><sup>21</sup>Jesus said unto him, If thou wouldest be perfect, go, sell that which thou hast, and give to the poor, and thou shalt have treasure in heaven: and come, follow me. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.19.22" data-parsed="Matt_19_22_0_0" data-passage="Matt 19.22" id="Matt.19.22"/><sup>22</sup>But when the young man heard the saying, he went away sorrowful; for he was one that had great possessions.</p>
<p id="Matt.19-p5">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.19.23" data-parsed="Matt_19_23_0_0" data-passage="Matt 19.23" id="Matt.19.23"/><sup>23</sup>And Jesus said unto his disciples, Verily I say unto you, It is hard for a rich man to enter into the kingdom of heaven. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.19.24" data-parsed="Matt_19_24_0_0" data-passage="Matt 19.24" id="Matt.19.24"/><sup>24</sup>And again I say unto you, It is easier for a camel to go through a needle's eye, than for a rich man to enter into the kingdom of God. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.19.25" data-parsed="Matt_19_25_0_0" data-passage="Matt 19.25" id="Matt.19.25"/><sup>25</sup>And when the disciples heard it, they were astonished exceedingly, saying, Who then can be saved?

<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.19.26" data-parsed="Matt_19_26_0_0" data-passage="Matt 19.26" id="Matt.19.26"/><sup>26</sup>And Jesus looking upon <i>them</i> said to them, With men this is impossible; but with God all things are possible. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.19.27" data-parsed="Matt_19_27_0_0" data-passage="Matt 19.27" id="Matt.19.27"/><sup>27</sup>Then answered Peter and said unto him, Lo, we have left all, and followed thee; what then shall we have? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.19.28" data-parsed="Matt_19_28_0_0" data-passage="Matt 19.28" id="Matt.19.28"/><sup>28</sup>And Jesus said unto them, Verily I say unto you, that ye who have followed me, in the regeneration when the Son of man shall sit on the throne of his glory, ye also shall sit upon twelve thrones, judging the twelve tribes of Israel. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.19.29" data-parsed="Matt_19_29_0_0" data-passage="Matt 19.29" id="Matt.19.29"/><sup>29</sup>And every one that hath left houses, or brethren, or sisters, or father, or mother, or children, or lands, for my name's sake, shall receive a hundredfold, and shall inherit eternal life.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.19.30" data-parsed="Matt_19_30_0_0" data-passage="Matt 19.30" id="Matt.19.30"/><sup>30</sup>But many shall be last <i>that are</i> first; and first <i>that are</i> last.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>