<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Matthew 7</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Matthew 7</span></div><div data-next="Matt.8" data-prev="Matt.6" data-progress="77.88%" data-shorttitle="" id="Matt.7" title="Matthew 7">
<h2 id="Matt.7-p0.1">7</h2>
<p id="Matt.7-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.7.1" data-parsed="Matt_7_1_0_0" data-passage="Matt 7.1" id="Matt.7.1"/><sup>1</sup>Judge not, that ye be not judged. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.7.2" data-parsed="Matt_7_2_0_0" data-passage="Matt 7.2" id="Matt.7.2"/><sup>2</sup>For with what judgment ye judge, ye shall be judged: and with what measure ye mete, it shall be measured unto you. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.7.3" data-parsed="Matt_7_3_0_0" data-passage="Matt 7.3" id="Matt.7.3"/><sup>3</sup>And why beholdest thou the mote that is in thy brother's eye, but considerest not the beam that is in thine own eye? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.7.4" data-parsed="Matt_7_4_0_0" data-passage="Matt 7.4" id="Matt.7.4"/><sup>4</sup>Or how wilt thou say to thy brother, Let me cast out the mote out of thine eye;
and lo, the beam is in thine own eye? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.7.5" data-parsed="Matt_7_5_0_0" data-passage="Matt 7.5" id="Matt.7.5"/><sup>5</sup>Thou hypocrite, cast out first the beam out of thine own eye; and then shalt thou see clearly to cast out the mote out of thy brother's eye.</p>
<p id="Matt.7-p2">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.7.6" data-parsed="Matt_7_6_0_0" data-passage="Matt 7.6" id="Matt.7.6"/><sup>6</sup>Give not that which is holy unto the dogs, neither cast your pearls before the swine, lest haply they trample them under their feet, and turn and rend you.</p>
<p id="Matt.7-p3">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.7.7" data-parsed="Matt_7_7_0_0" data-passage="Matt 7.7" id="Matt.7.7"/><sup>7</sup>Ask, and it shall be given you; seek, and ye shall find; knock, and it shall be opened unto you: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.7.8" data-parsed="Matt_7_8_0_0" data-passage="Matt 7.8" id="Matt.7.8"/><sup>8</sup>for every one that asketh receiveth; and he that seeketh findeth; and to him that knocketh it shall be opened. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.7.9" data-parsed="Matt_7_9_0_0" data-passage="Matt 7.9" id="Matt.7.9"/><sup>9</sup>Or what man is there of you, who, if his son shall ask him for a loaf, will give him a stone; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.7.10" data-parsed="Matt_7_10_0_0" data-passage="Matt 7.10" id="Matt.7.10"/><sup>10</sup>or if he shall ask for a fish, will give him a serpent?

<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.7.11" data-parsed="Matt_7_11_0_0" data-passage="Matt 7.11" id="Matt.7.11"/><sup>11</sup>If ye then, being evil, know how to give good gifts unto your children,
how much more shall your Father who is in heaven give good things to them that ask him? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.7.12" data-parsed="Matt_7_12_0_0" data-passage="Matt 7.12" id="Matt.7.12"/><sup>12</sup>All things therefore whatsoever ye would that men should do unto you, even so do ye also unto them: for this is the law and the prophets.</p>
<p id="Matt.7-p4">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.7.13" data-parsed="Matt_7_13_0_0" data-passage="Matt 7.13" id="Matt.7.13"/><sup>13</sup>Enter ye in by the narrow gate: for wide is the gate, and broad is the way, that leadeth to destruction, and many are they that enter in thereby.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.7.14" data-parsed="Matt_7_14_0_0" data-passage="Matt 7.14" id="Matt.7.14"/><sup>14</sup>For narrow is the gate, and straitened the way, that leadeth unto life,
and few are they that find it.</p>
<p id="Matt.7-p5">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.7.15" data-parsed="Matt_7_15_0_0" data-passage="Matt 7.15" id="Matt.7.15"/><sup>15</sup>Beware of false prophets, who come to you in sheep's clothing, but inwardly are ravening wolves. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.7.16" data-parsed="Matt_7_16_0_0" data-passage="Matt 7.16" id="Matt.7.16"/><sup>16</sup>By their fruits ye shall know them. Do <i>men</i> gather grapes of thorns, or figs of thistles? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.7.17" data-parsed="Matt_7_17_0_0" data-passage="Matt 7.17" id="Matt.7.17"/><sup>17</sup>Even so every good tree bringeth forth good fruit; but the corrupt tree bringeth forth evil fruit. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.7.18" data-parsed="Matt_7_18_0_0" data-passage="Matt 7.18" id="Matt.7.18"/><sup>18</sup>A good tree cannot bring forth evil fruit, neither can a corrupt tree bring forth good fruit. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.7.19" data-parsed="Matt_7_19_0_0" data-passage="Matt 7.19" id="Matt.7.19"/><sup>19</sup>Every tree that bringeth not forth good fruit is hewn down, and cast into the fire. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.7.20" data-parsed="Matt_7_20_0_0" data-passage="Matt 7.20" id="Matt.7.20"/><sup>20</sup>Therefore by their fruits ye shall know them. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.7.21" data-parsed="Matt_7_21_0_0" data-passage="Matt 7.21" id="Matt.7.21"/><sup>21</sup>Not every one that saith unto me, Lord, Lord, shall enter into the kingdom of heaven; but he that doeth the will of my Father who is in heaven. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.7.22" data-parsed="Matt_7_22_0_0" data-passage="Matt 7.22" id="Matt.7.22"/><sup>22</sup>Many will say to me in that day, Lord, Lord, did we not prophesy by thy name, and by thy name cast out demons, and by thy name do many mighty works? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.7.23" data-parsed="Matt_7_23_0_0" data-passage="Matt 7.23" id="Matt.7.23"/><sup>23</sup>And then will I profess unto them, I never knew you:
depart from me, ye that work iniquity.</p>
<p id="Matt.7-p6">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.7.24" data-parsed="Matt_7_24_0_0" data-passage="Matt 7.24" id="Matt.7.24"/><sup>24</sup>Every one therefore that heareth these words of mine, and doeth them,
shall be likened unto a wise man, who built his house upon the rock:

<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.7.25" data-parsed="Matt_7_25_0_0" data-passage="Matt 7.25" id="Matt.7.25"/><sup>25</sup>and the rain descended, and the floods came, and the winds blew, and beat upon that house; and if fell not: for it was founded upon the rock.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.7.26" data-parsed="Matt_7_26_0_0" data-passage="Matt 7.26" id="Matt.7.26"/><sup>26</sup>And every one that heareth these words of mine, and doeth them not,
shall be likened unto a foolish man, who built his house upon the sand:

<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.7.27" data-parsed="Matt_7_27_0_0" data-passage="Matt 7.27" id="Matt.7.27"/><sup>27</sup>and the rain descended, and the floods came, and the winds blew, and smote upon that house; and it fell: and great was the fall thereof.</p>
<p id="Matt.7-p7">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.7.28" data-parsed="Matt_7_28_0_0" data-passage="Matt 7.28" id="Matt.7.28"/><sup>28</sup>And it came to pass, when Jesus had finished these words, the multitudes were astonished at his teaching: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.7.29" data-parsed="Matt_7_29_0_0" data-passage="Matt 7.29" id="Matt.7.29"/><sup>29</sup>for he taught them as <i>one</i> having authority, and not as their scribes.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>