<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Matthew 26</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Matthew 26</span></div><div data-next="Matt.27" data-prev="Matt.25" data-progress="79.91%" data-shorttitle="" id="Matt.26" title="Matthew 26">
<h2 id="Matt.26-p0.1">26</h2>
<p id="Matt.26-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.26.1" data-parsed="Matt_26_1_0_0" data-passage="Matt 26.1" id="Matt.26.1"/><sup>1</sup>And it came to pass, when Jesus had finished all these words, he said unto his disciples, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.26.2" data-parsed="Matt_26_2_0_0" data-passage="Matt 26.2" id="Matt.26.2"/><sup>2</sup>Ye know that after two days the passover cometh, and the Son of man is delivered up to be crucified. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.26.3" data-parsed="Matt_26_3_0_0" data-passage="Matt 26.3" id="Matt.26.3"/><sup>3</sup>Then were gathered together the chief priests, and the elders of the people, unto the court of the high priest, who was called Caiaphas; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.26.4" data-parsed="Matt_26_4_0_0" data-passage="Matt 26.4" id="Matt.26.4"/><sup>4</sup>and they took counsel together that they might take Jesus by subtlety, and kill him. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.26.5" data-parsed="Matt_26_5_0_0" data-passage="Matt 26.5" id="Matt.26.5"/><sup>5</sup>But they said, Not during the feast, lest a tumult arise among people.</p>
<p id="Matt.26-p2">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.26.6" data-parsed="Matt_26_6_0_0" data-passage="Matt 26.6" id="Matt.26.6"/><sup>6</sup>Now when Jesus was in Bethany, in the house of Simon the leper,

<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.26.7" data-parsed="Matt_26_7_0_0" data-passage="Matt 26.7" id="Matt.26.7"/><sup>7</sup>there came unto him a woman having an alabaster cruse of exceeding precious ointment, and she poured it upon his head, as he sat at meat.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.26.8" data-parsed="Matt_26_8_0_0" data-passage="Matt 26.8" id="Matt.26.8"/><sup>8</sup>But when the disciples saw it, they had indignation, saying, To what purpose is this waste? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.26.9" data-parsed="Matt_26_9_0_0" data-passage="Matt 26.9" id="Matt.26.9"/><sup>9</sup>For this <i>ointment</i> might have been sold for much, and given to the poor. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.26.10" data-parsed="Matt_26_10_0_0" data-passage="Matt 26.10" id="Matt.26.10"/><sup>10</sup>But Jesus perceiving it said unto them, Why trouble ye the woman? for she hath wrought a good work upon me.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.26.11" data-parsed="Matt_26_11_0_0" data-passage="Matt 26.11" id="Matt.26.11"/><sup>11</sup>For ye have the poor always with you; but me ye have not always.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.26.12" data-parsed="Matt_26_12_0_0" data-passage="Matt 26.12" id="Matt.26.12"/><sup>12</sup>For in that she poured this ointment upon my body, she did it to prepare me for burial. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.26.13" data-parsed="Matt_26_13_0_0" data-passage="Matt 26.13" id="Matt.26.13"/><sup>13</sup>Verily I say unto you, Wheresoever this gospel shall be preached in the whole world, that also which this woman hath done shall be spoken of for a memorial of her.</p>
<p id="Matt.26-p3">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.26.14" data-parsed="Matt_26_14_0_0" data-passage="Matt 26.14" id="Matt.26.14"/><sup>14</sup>Then one of the twelve, who was called Judas Iscariot, went unto the chief priests, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.26.15" data-parsed="Matt_26_15_0_0" data-passage="Matt 26.15" id="Matt.26.15"/><sup>15</sup>and said, What are ye willing to give me, and I will deliver him unto you? And they weighed unto him thirty pieces of silver.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.26.16" data-parsed="Matt_26_16_0_0" data-passage="Matt 26.16" id="Matt.26.16"/><sup>16</sup>And from that time he sought opportunity to deliver him <i>unto them.</i></p>
<p id="Matt.26-p4">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.26.17" data-parsed="Matt_26_17_0_0" data-passage="Matt 26.17" id="Matt.26.17"/><sup>17</sup>Now on the first <i>day</i> of unleavened bread the disciples came to Jesus, saying, Where wilt thou that we make ready for thee to eat the passover? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.26.18" data-parsed="Matt_26_18_0_0" data-passage="Matt 26.18" id="Matt.26.18"/><sup>18</sup>And he said, Go into the city to such a man, and say unto him, The Teacher saith, My time is at hand; I keep the passover at thy house with my disciples. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.26.19" data-parsed="Matt_26_19_0_0" data-passage="Matt 26.19" id="Matt.26.19"/><sup>19</sup>And the disciples did as Jesus appointed them; and they made ready the passover.</p>
<p id="Matt.26-p5">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.26.20" data-parsed="Matt_26_20_0_0" data-passage="Matt 26.20" id="Matt.26.20"/><sup>20</sup>Now when even was come, he was sitting at meat with the twelve disciples; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.26.21" data-parsed="Matt_26_21_0_0" data-passage="Matt 26.21" id="Matt.26.21"/><sup>21</sup>and as they were eating, he said, Verily I say unto you,
that one of you shall betray me. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.26.22" data-parsed="Matt_26_22_0_0" data-passage="Matt 26.22" id="Matt.26.22"/><sup>22</sup>And they were exceeding sorrowful, and began to say unto him every one, Is it I, Lord? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.26.23" data-parsed="Matt_26_23_0_0" data-passage="Matt 26.23" id="Matt.26.23"/><sup>23</sup>And he answered and said, He that dipped his hand with me in the dish, the same shall betray me.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.26.24" data-parsed="Matt_26_24_0_0" data-passage="Matt 26.24" id="Matt.26.24"/><sup>24</sup>The Son of man goeth, even as it is written of him: but woe unto that man through whom the Son of man is betrayed! good were it for that man if he had not been born. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.26.25" data-parsed="Matt_26_25_0_0" data-passage="Matt 26.25" id="Matt.26.25"/><sup>25</sup>And Judas, who betrayed him, answered and said, Is it I, Rabbi? He saith unto him, Thou hast said.</p>
<p id="Matt.26-p6">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.26.26" data-parsed="Matt_26_26_0_0" data-passage="Matt 26.26" id="Matt.26.26"/><sup>26</sup>And as they were eating, Jesus took bread, and blessed, and brake it;
and he gave to the disciples, and said, Take, eat; this is my body. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.26.27" data-parsed="Matt_26_27_0_0" data-passage="Matt 26.27" id="Matt.26.27"/><sup>27</sup>And he took a cup, and gave thanks, and gave to them, saying, Drink ye all of it;

<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.26.28" data-parsed="Matt_26_28_0_0" data-passage="Matt 26.28" id="Matt.26.28"/><sup>28</sup>for this is my blood of the covenant, which is poured out for many unto remission of sins. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.26.29" data-parsed="Matt_26_29_0_0" data-passage="Matt 26.29" id="Matt.26.29"/><sup>29</sup>But I say unto you, I shall not drink henceforth of this fruit of the vine, until that day when I drink it new with you in my Father's kingdom.</p>
<p id="Matt.26-p7">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.26.30" data-parsed="Matt_26_30_0_0" data-passage="Matt 26.30" id="Matt.26.30"/><sup>30</sup>And when they had sung a hymn, they went out unto the mount of Olives.</p>
<p id="Matt.26-p8">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.26.31" data-parsed="Matt_26_31_0_0" data-passage="Matt 26.31" id="Matt.26.31"/><sup>31</sup>Then saith Jesus unto them, All ye shall be offended in me this night:
for it is written, I will smite the shepherd, and the sheep of the flock shall be scattered abroad. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.26.32" data-parsed="Matt_26_32_0_0" data-passage="Matt 26.32" id="Matt.26.32"/><sup>32</sup>But after I am raised up, I will go before you into Galilee. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.26.33" data-parsed="Matt_26_33_0_0" data-passage="Matt 26.33" id="Matt.26.33"/><sup>33</sup>But Peter answered and said unto him, If all shall be offended in thee, I will never be offended. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.26.34" data-parsed="Matt_26_34_0_0" data-passage="Matt 26.34" id="Matt.26.34"/><sup>34</sup>Jesus said unto him, Verily I say unto thee, that this night, before the cock crow, thou shalt deny me thrice. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.26.35" data-parsed="Matt_26_35_0_0" data-passage="Matt 26.35" id="Matt.26.35"/><sup>35</sup>Peter saith unto him, Even if I must die with thee, <i>yet</i>
will I not deny thee. Likewise also said all the disciples.</p>
<p id="Matt.26-p9">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.26.36" data-parsed="Matt_26_36_0_0" data-passage="Matt 26.36" id="Matt.26.36"/><sup>36</sup>Then cometh Jesus with them unto a place called Gethsemane, and saith unto his disciples, Sit ye here, while I go yonder and pray. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.26.37" data-parsed="Matt_26_37_0_0" data-passage="Matt 26.37" id="Matt.26.37"/><sup>37</sup>And he took with him Peter and the two sons of Zebedee, and began to be sorrowful and sore troubled. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.26.38" data-parsed="Matt_26_38_0_0" data-passage="Matt 26.38" id="Matt.26.38"/><sup>38</sup>Then saith he unto them, My soul is exceeding sorrowful, even unto death: abide ye here, and watch with me. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.26.39" data-parsed="Matt_26_39_0_0" data-passage="Matt 26.39" id="Matt.26.39"/><sup>39</sup>And he went forward a little, and fell on his face, and prayed, saying, My Father,
if it be possible, let this cup pass away from me: nevertheless, not as I will, but as thou wilt. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.26.40" data-parsed="Matt_26_40_0_0" data-passage="Matt 26.40" id="Matt.26.40"/><sup>40</sup>And he cometh unto the disciples, and findeth them sleeping, and saith unto Peter, What, could ye not watch with me one hour? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.26.41" data-parsed="Matt_26_41_0_0" data-passage="Matt 26.41" id="Matt.26.41"/><sup>41</sup>Watch and pray, that ye enter not into temptation: the spirit indeed is willing, but the flesh is weak. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.26.42" data-parsed="Matt_26_42_0_0" data-passage="Matt 26.42" id="Matt.26.42"/><sup>42</sup>Again a second time he went away, and prayed, saying, My Father, if this cannot pass away, except I drink it, thy will be done. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.26.43" data-parsed="Matt_26_43_0_0" data-passage="Matt 26.43" id="Matt.26.43"/><sup>43</sup>And he came again and found them sleeping, for their eyes were heavy. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.26.44" data-parsed="Matt_26_44_0_0" data-passage="Matt 26.44" id="Matt.26.44"/><sup>44</sup>And he left them again, and went away, and prayed a third time, saying again the same words. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.26.45" data-parsed="Matt_26_45_0_0" data-passage="Matt 26.45" id="Matt.26.45"/><sup>45</sup>Then cometh he to the disciples, and saith unto them, Sleep on now, and take your rest: behold, the hour is at hand, and the Son of man is betrayed into the hands of sinners.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.26.46" data-parsed="Matt_26_46_0_0" data-passage="Matt 26.46" id="Matt.26.46"/><sup>46</sup>Arise, let us be going: behold, he is at hand that betrayeth me.</p>
<p id="Matt.26-p10">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.26.47" data-parsed="Matt_26_47_0_0" data-passage="Matt 26.47" id="Matt.26.47"/><sup>47</sup>And while he yet spake, lo, Judas, one of the twelve, came, and with him a great multitude with swords and staves, from the chief priest and elders of the people. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.26.48" data-parsed="Matt_26_48_0_0" data-passage="Matt 26.48" id="Matt.26.48"/><sup>48</sup>Now he that betrayed him gave them a sign,
saying, Whomsoever I shall kiss, that is he: take him. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.26.49" data-parsed="Matt_26_49_0_0" data-passage="Matt 26.49" id="Matt.26.49"/><sup>49</sup>And straightway he came to Jesus, and said, Hail, Rabbi; and kissed him. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.26.50" data-parsed="Matt_26_50_0_0" data-passage="Matt 26.50" id="Matt.26.50"/><sup>50</sup>And Jesus said unto him, Friend, <i>do</i> that for which thou art come. Then they came and laid hands on Jesus, and took him. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.26.51" data-parsed="Matt_26_51_0_0" data-passage="Matt 26.51" id="Matt.26.51"/><sup>51</sup>And behold, one of them that were with Jesus stretched out his hand, and drew his sword, and smote the servant of the high priest, and struck off his ear. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.26.52" data-parsed="Matt_26_52_0_0" data-passage="Matt 26.52" id="Matt.26.52"/><sup>52</sup>Then saith Jesus unto him,
Put up again thy sword into its place: for all they that take the sword shall perish with the sword. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.26.53" data-parsed="Matt_26_53_0_0" data-passage="Matt 26.53" id="Matt.26.53"/><sup>53</sup>Or thinkest thou that I cannot beseech my Father, and he shall even now send me more than twelve legions of angels?

<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.26.54" data-parsed="Matt_26_54_0_0" data-passage="Matt 26.54" id="Matt.26.54"/><sup>54</sup>How then should the spans be fulfilled that thus it must be?

<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.26.55" data-parsed="Matt_26_55_0_0" data-passage="Matt 26.55" id="Matt.26.55"/><sup>55</sup>In that hour said Jesus to the multitudes, Are ye come out as against a robber with swords and staves to seize me? I sat daily in the temple teaching, and ye took me not. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.26.56" data-parsed="Matt_26_56_0_0" data-passage="Matt 26.56" id="Matt.26.56"/><sup>56</sup>But all this is come to pass, that the spans of the prophets might be fulfilled. Then all the disciples left him, and fled.</p>
<p id="Matt.26-p11">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.26.57" data-parsed="Matt_26_57_0_0" data-passage="Matt 26.57" id="Matt.26.57"/><sup>57</sup>And they that had taken Jesus led him away to <i>the house of</i>
Caiaphas the high priest, where the scribes and the elders were gathered together. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.26.58" data-parsed="Matt_26_58_0_0" data-passage="Matt 26.58" id="Matt.26.58"/><sup>58</sup>But Peter followed him afar off, unto the court of the high priest, and entered in, and sat with the officers, to see the end. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.26.59" data-parsed="Matt_26_59_0_0" data-passage="Matt 26.59" id="Matt.26.59"/><sup>59</sup>Now the chief priests and the whole council sought false witness against Jesus,
that they might put him to death; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.26.60" data-parsed="Matt_26_60_0_0" data-passage="Matt 26.60" id="Matt.26.60"/><sup>60</sup>and they found it not, though many false witnesses came. But afterward came two, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.26.61" data-parsed="Matt_26_61_0_0" data-passage="Matt 26.61" id="Matt.26.61"/><sup>61</sup>and said, This man said,
I am able to destroy the temple of God, and to build it in three days.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.26.62" data-parsed="Matt_26_62_0_0" data-passage="Matt 26.62" id="Matt.26.62"/><sup>62</sup>And the high priest stood up, and said unto him, Answerest thou nothing? what is it which these witness against thee? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.26.63" data-parsed="Matt_26_63_0_0" data-passage="Matt 26.63" id="Matt.26.63"/><sup>63</sup>But Jesus held his peace. And the high priest said unto him, I adjure thee by the living God, that thou tell us whether thou art the Christ, the Son of God.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.26.64" data-parsed="Matt_26_64_0_0" data-passage="Matt 26.64" id="Matt.26.64"/><sup>64</sup>Jesus said unto him, Thou hast said: nevertheless I say unto you,
Henceforth ye shall see the Son of man sitting at the right hand of Power,
and coming on the clouds of heaven. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.26.65" data-parsed="Matt_26_65_0_0" data-passage="Matt 26.65" id="Matt.26.65"/><sup>65</sup>Then the high priest rent his garments, saying, He hath spoken blasphemy: what further need have we of witnesses? behold, now ye have heard the blasphemy: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.26.66" data-parsed="Matt_26_66_0_0" data-passage="Matt 26.66" id="Matt.26.66"/><sup>66</sup>what think ye? They answered and said, He is worthy of death. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.26.67" data-parsed="Matt_26_67_0_0" data-passage="Matt 26.67" id="Matt.26.67"/><sup>67</sup>Then did they spit in his face and buffet him: and some smote him with the palms of their hands,

<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.26.68" data-parsed="Matt_26_68_0_0" data-passage="Matt 26.68" id="Matt.26.68"/><sup>68</sup>saying, Prophesy unto us, thou Christ: who is he that struck thee?</p>
<p id="Matt.26-p12">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.26.69" data-parsed="Matt_26_69_0_0" data-passage="Matt 26.69" id="Matt.26.69"/><sup>69</sup>Now Peter was sitting without in the court: and a maid came unto him,
saying, Thou also wast with Jesus the Galilaean. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.26.70" data-parsed="Matt_26_70_0_0" data-passage="Matt 26.70" id="Matt.26.70"/><sup>70</sup>But he denied before them all, saying, I know not what thou sayest. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.26.71" data-parsed="Matt_26_71_0_0" data-passage="Matt 26.71" id="Matt.26.71"/><sup>71</sup>And when he was gone out into the porch, another <i>maid</i> saw him, and saith unto them that were there, This man also was with Jesus of Nazareth. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.26.72" data-parsed="Matt_26_72_0_0" data-passage="Matt 26.72" id="Matt.26.72"/><sup>72</sup>And again he denied with an oath, I know not the man. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.26.73" data-parsed="Matt_26_73_0_0" data-passage="Matt 26.73" id="Matt.26.73"/><sup>73</sup>And after a little while they that stood by came and said to Peter, Of a truth thou also art <i>one</i> of them; for thy speech maketh thee known. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.26.74" data-parsed="Matt_26_74_0_0" data-passage="Matt 26.74" id="Matt.26.74"/><sup>74</sup>Then began he to curse and to swear, I know not the man. And straightway the cock crew. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.26.75" data-parsed="Matt_26_75_0_0" data-passage="Matt 26.75" id="Matt.26.75"/><sup>75</sup>And Peter remembered the word which Jesus had said, Before the cock crow, thou shalt deny me thrice. And he went out, and wept bitterly.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>