<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Matthew 15</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Matthew 15</span></div><div data-next="Matt.16" data-prev="Matt.14" data-progress="78.76%" data-shorttitle="" id="Matt.15" title="Matthew 15">
<h2 id="Matt.15-p0.1">15</h2>
<p id="Matt.15-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.15.1" data-parsed="Matt_15_1_0_0" data-passage="Matt 15.1" id="Matt.15.1"/><sup>1</sup>Then there come to Jesus from Jerusalem Pharisees and scribes,
saying, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.15.2" data-parsed="Matt_15_2_0_0" data-passage="Matt 15.2" id="Matt.15.2"/><sup>2</sup>Why do thy disciples transgress the tradition of the elders? for they wash not their hands when they eat bread. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.15.3" data-parsed="Matt_15_3_0_0" data-passage="Matt 15.3" id="Matt.15.3"/><sup>3</sup>And he answered and said unto them, Why do ye also transgress the commandment of God because of your tradition? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.15.4" data-parsed="Matt_15_4_0_0" data-passage="Matt 15.4" id="Matt.15.4"/><sup>4</sup>For God said, Honor thy father and thy mother: and, He that speaketh evil of father or mother, let him die the death. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.15.5" data-parsed="Matt_15_5_0_0" data-passage="Matt 15.5" id="Matt.15.5"/><sup>5</sup>But ye say,
whosoever shall say to his father or his mother, That wherewith thou mightest have been profited by me is given <i>to God</i>; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.15.6" data-parsed="Matt_15_6_0_0" data-passage="Matt 15.6" id="Matt.15.6"/><sup>6</sup>he shall not honor his father. And ye have made void the word of God because of your tradition.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.15.7" data-parsed="Matt_15_7_0_0" data-passage="Matt 15.7" id="Matt.15.7"/><sup>7</sup>Ye hypocrites, well did Isaiah prophesy of you, saying,</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Matt.15-p2">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.15.8" data-parsed="Matt_15_8_0_0" data-passage="Matt 15.8" id="Matt.15.8"/><sup>8</sup>This people honoreth me with their lips;</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Matt.15-p3">
But their heart is far from me.</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Matt.15-p4">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.15.9" data-parsed="Matt_15_9_0_0" data-passage="Matt 15.9" id="Matt.15.9"/><sup>9</sup>But in vain do they worship me,</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Matt.15-p5">
Teaching <i>as their</i> doctrines the precepts of men.</p>
<p id="Matt.15-p6">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.15.10" data-parsed="Matt_15_10_0_0" data-passage="Matt 15.10" id="Matt.15.10"/><sup>10</sup>And he called to him the multitude, and said unto them, Hear, and understand: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.15.11" data-parsed="Matt_15_11_0_0" data-passage="Matt 15.11" id="Matt.15.11"/><sup>11</sup>Not that which entereth into the mouth defileth the man;
but that which proceedeth out of the mouth, this defileth the man. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.15.12" data-parsed="Matt_15_12_0_0" data-passage="Matt 15.12" id="Matt.15.12"/><sup>12</sup>Then came the disciples, and said unto him, Knowest thou that the Pharisees were offended, when they heard this saying? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.15.13" data-parsed="Matt_15_13_0_0" data-passage="Matt 15.13" id="Matt.15.13"/><sup>13</sup>But he answered and said, Every plant which my heavenly Father planted not, shall be rooted up. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.15.14" data-parsed="Matt_15_14_0_0" data-passage="Matt 15.14" id="Matt.15.14"/><sup>14</sup>Let them alone: they are blind guides. And if the blind guide the blind, both shall fall into a pit. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.15.15" data-parsed="Matt_15_15_0_0" data-passage="Matt 15.15" id="Matt.15.15"/><sup>15</sup>And Peter answered and said unto him, Declare unto us the parable. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.15.16" data-parsed="Matt_15_16_0_0" data-passage="Matt 15.16" id="Matt.15.16"/><sup>16</sup>And he said, Are ye also even yet without understanding? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.15.17" data-parsed="Matt_15_17_0_0" data-passage="Matt 15.17" id="Matt.15.17"/><sup>17</sup>Perceive ye not, that whatsoever goeth into the mouth passeth into the belly, and is cast out into the draught? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.15.18" data-parsed="Matt_15_18_0_0" data-passage="Matt 15.18" id="Matt.15.18"/><sup>18</sup>But the things which proceed out of the mouth come forth out of the heart; and they defile the man. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.15.19" data-parsed="Matt_15_19_0_0" data-passage="Matt 15.19" id="Matt.15.19"/><sup>19</sup>For out of the heart come forth evil thoughts, murders,
adulteries, fornications, thefts, false witness, railings: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.15.20" data-parsed="Matt_15_20_0_0" data-passage="Matt 15.20" id="Matt.15.20"/><sup>20</sup>these are the things which defile the man; but to eat with unwashen hands defileth not the man.</p>
<p id="Matt.15-p7">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.15.21" data-parsed="Matt_15_21_0_0" data-passage="Matt 15.21" id="Matt.15.21"/><sup>21</sup>And Jesus went out thence, and withdrew into the parts of Tyre and Sidon. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.15.22" data-parsed="Matt_15_22_0_0" data-passage="Matt 15.22" id="Matt.15.22"/><sup>22</sup>And behold, a Canaanitish woman came out from those borders, and cried, saying, Have mercy on me, O Lord, thou son of David; my daughter is grievously vexed with a demon. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.15.23" data-parsed="Matt_15_23_0_0" data-passage="Matt 15.23" id="Matt.15.23"/><sup>23</sup>But he answered her not a word. And his disciples came and besought him, saying, Send her away; for she crieth after us. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.15.24" data-parsed="Matt_15_24_0_0" data-passage="Matt 15.24" id="Matt.15.24"/><sup>24</sup>But he answered and said, I was not sent but unto the lost sheep of the house of Israel. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.15.25" data-parsed="Matt_15_25_0_0" data-passage="Matt 15.25" id="Matt.15.25"/><sup>25</sup>But she came and worshipped him, saying, Lord,
help me. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.15.26" data-parsed="Matt_15_26_0_0" data-passage="Matt 15.26" id="Matt.15.26"/><sup>26</sup>And he answered and said, It is not meet to take the children's bread and cast it to the dogs. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.15.27" data-parsed="Matt_15_27_0_0" data-passage="Matt 15.27" id="Matt.15.27"/><sup>27</sup>But she said, Yea, Lord: for even the dogs eat of the crumbs which fall from their masters' table.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.15.28" data-parsed="Matt_15_28_0_0" data-passage="Matt 15.28" id="Matt.15.28"/><sup>28</sup>Then Jesus answered and said unto her, O woman, great is thy faith: be it done unto thee even as thou wilt. And her daughter was healed from that hour.</p>
<p id="Matt.15-p8">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.15.29" data-parsed="Matt_15_29_0_0" data-passage="Matt 15.29" id="Matt.15.29"/><sup>29</sup>And Jesus departed thence, and came nigh unto the sea of Galilee; and he went up into the mountain, and sat there. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.15.30" data-parsed="Matt_15_30_0_0" data-passage="Matt 15.30" id="Matt.15.30"/><sup>30</sup>And there came unto him great multitudes, having with them the lame, blind, dumb, maimed, and many others, and they cast them down at this feet; and he healed them:

<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.15.31" data-parsed="Matt_15_31_0_0" data-passage="Matt 15.31" id="Matt.15.31"/><sup>31</sup>insomuch that the multitude wondered, when they saw the dumb speaking,
the maimed whole, and lame walking, and the blind seeing: and they glorified the God of Israel.</p>
<p id="Matt.15-p9">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.15.32" data-parsed="Matt_15_32_0_0" data-passage="Matt 15.32" id="Matt.15.32"/><sup>32</sup>And Jesus called unto him his disciples, and said, I have compassion on the multitude, because they continue with me now three days and have nothing to eat: and I would not send them away fasting, lest haply they faint on the way. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.15.33" data-parsed="Matt_15_33_0_0" data-passage="Matt 15.33" id="Matt.15.33"/><sup>33</sup>And the disciples say unto him, Whence should we have so many loaves in a desert place as to fill so great a multitude? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.15.34" data-parsed="Matt_15_34_0_0" data-passage="Matt 15.34" id="Matt.15.34"/><sup>34</sup>And Jesus said unto them, How many loaves have ye? And they said, Seven, and a few small fishes. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.15.35" data-parsed="Matt_15_35_0_0" data-passage="Matt 15.35" id="Matt.15.35"/><sup>35</sup>And he commanded the multitude to sit down on the ground;

<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.15.36" data-parsed="Matt_15_36_0_0" data-passage="Matt 15.36" id="Matt.15.36"/><sup>36</sup>and he took the seven loaves and the fishes; and he gave thanks and brake, and gave to the disciples, and the disciples to the multitudes.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.15.37" data-parsed="Matt_15_37_0_0" data-passage="Matt 15.37" id="Matt.15.37"/><sup>37</sup>And they all ate, and were filled: and they took up that which remained over of the broken pieces, seven baskets full. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.15.38" data-parsed="Matt_15_38_0_0" data-passage="Matt 15.38" id="Matt.15.38"/><sup>38</sup>And they that did eat were four thousand men, besides women and children. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.15.39" data-parsed="Matt_15_39_0_0" data-passage="Matt 15.39" id="Matt.15.39"/><sup>39</sup>And he sent away the multitudes, and entered into the boat, and came into the borders of Magadan.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>