<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Matthew 27</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Matthew 27</span></div><div data-next="Matt.28" data-prev="Matt.26" data-progress="80.11%" data-shorttitle="" id="Matt.27" title="Matthew 27">
<h2 id="Matt.27-p0.1">27</h2>
<p id="Matt.27-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.27.1" data-parsed="Matt_27_1_0_0" data-passage="Matt 27.1" id="Matt.27.1"/><sup>1</sup>Now when morning was come, all the chief priests and the elders of the people took counsel against Jesus to put him to death: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.27.2" data-parsed="Matt_27_2_0_0" data-passage="Matt 27.2" id="Matt.27.2"/><sup>2</sup>and they bound him, and led him away, and delivered him up to Pilate the governor.</p>
<p id="Matt.27-p2">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.27.3" data-parsed="Matt_27_3_0_0" data-passage="Matt 27.3" id="Matt.27.3"/><sup>3</sup>Then Judas, who betrayed him, when he saw that he was condemned,
repented himself, and brought back the thirty pieces of silver to the chief priests and elders, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.27.4" data-parsed="Matt_27_4_0_0" data-passage="Matt 27.4" id="Matt.27.4"/><sup>4</sup>saying, I have sinned in that I betrayed innocent blood. But they said, What is that to us? see thou <i>to it</i>. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.27.5" data-parsed="Matt_27_5_0_0" data-passage="Matt 27.5" id="Matt.27.5"/><sup>5</sup>And he cast down the pieces of silver into the sanctuary, and departed; and he went away and hanged himself. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.27.6" data-parsed="Matt_27_6_0_0" data-passage="Matt 27.6" id="Matt.27.6"/><sup>6</sup>And the chief priests took the pieces of silver, and said, It is not lawful to put them into the treasury, since it is the price of blood. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.27.7" data-parsed="Matt_27_7_0_0" data-passage="Matt 27.7" id="Matt.27.7"/><sup>7</sup>And they took counsel, and bought with them the potter's field, to bury strangers in. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.27.8" data-parsed="Matt_27_8_0_0" data-passage="Matt 27.8" id="Matt.27.8"/><sup>8</sup>Wherefore that field was called,
the field of blood, unto this day. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.27.9" data-parsed="Matt_27_9_0_0" data-passage="Matt 27.9" id="Matt.27.9"/><sup>9</sup>Then was fulfilled that which was spoken through Jeremiah the prophet, saying, And they took the thirty pieces of silver, the price of him that was priced, whom <i>certain</i> of the children of Israel did price; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.27.10" data-parsed="Matt_27_10_0_0" data-passage="Matt 27.10" id="Matt.27.10"/><sup>10</sup>and they gave them for the potter's field, as the Lord appointed me.</p>
<p id="Matt.27-p3">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.27.11" data-parsed="Matt_27_11_0_0" data-passage="Matt 27.11" id="Matt.27.11"/><sup>11</sup>Now Jesus stood before the governor: and the governor asked him,
saying, Art thou the King of the Jews? And Jesus said unto him, Thou sayest.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.27.12" data-parsed="Matt_27_12_0_0" data-passage="Matt 27.12" id="Matt.27.12"/><sup>12</sup>And when he was accused by the chief priests and elders, he answered nothing. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.27.13" data-parsed="Matt_27_13_0_0" data-passage="Matt 27.13" id="Matt.27.13"/><sup>13</sup>Then saith Pilate unto him, Hearest thou not how many things they witness against thee? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.27.14" data-parsed="Matt_27_14_0_0" data-passage="Matt 27.14" id="Matt.27.14"/><sup>14</sup>And he gave him no answer, not even to one word: insomuch that the governor marvelled greatly. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.27.15" data-parsed="Matt_27_15_0_0" data-passage="Matt 27.15" id="Matt.27.15"/><sup>15</sup>Now at the feast the governor was wont to release unto the multitude one prisoner, whom they would. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.27.16" data-parsed="Matt_27_16_0_0" data-passage="Matt 27.16" id="Matt.27.16"/><sup>16</sup>And they had then a notable prisoner, called Barabbas.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.27.17" data-parsed="Matt_27_17_0_0" data-passage="Matt 27.17" id="Matt.27.17"/><sup>17</sup>When therefore they were gathered together, Pilate said unto them, Whom will ye that I release unto you? Barabbas, or Jesus who is called Christ?

<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.27.18" data-parsed="Matt_27_18_0_0" data-passage="Matt 27.18" id="Matt.27.18"/><sup>18</sup>For he knew that for envy they had delivered him up. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.27.19" data-parsed="Matt_27_19_0_0" data-passage="Matt 27.19" id="Matt.27.19"/><sup>19</sup>And while he was sitting on the judgment-seat, his wife sent unto him, saying, Have thou nothing to do with that righteous man; for I have suffered many things this day in a dream because of him. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.27.20" data-parsed="Matt_27_20_0_0" data-passage="Matt 27.20" id="Matt.27.20"/><sup>20</sup>Now the chief priests and the elders persuaded the multitudes that they should ask for Barabbas, and destroy Jesus. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.27.21" data-parsed="Matt_27_21_0_0" data-passage="Matt 27.21" id="Matt.27.21"/><sup>21</sup>But the governor answered and said unto them, Which of the two will ye that I release unto you? And they said, Barabbas. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.27.22" data-parsed="Matt_27_22_0_0" data-passage="Matt 27.22" id="Matt.27.22"/><sup>22</sup>Pilate saith unto them, What then shall I do unto Jesus who is called Christ? They all say, Let him be crucified. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.27.23" data-parsed="Matt_27_23_0_0" data-passage="Matt 27.23" id="Matt.27.23"/><sup>23</sup>And he said, Why, what evil hath he done?
But they cried out exceedingly, saying, Let him be crucified. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.27.24" data-parsed="Matt_27_24_0_0" data-passage="Matt 27.24" id="Matt.27.24"/><sup>24</sup>So when Pilate saw that he prevailed nothing, but rather that a tumult was arising,
he took water, and washed his hands before the multitude, saying, I am innocent of the blood of this righteous man; see ye <i>to it</i>. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.27.25" data-parsed="Matt_27_25_0_0" data-passage="Matt 27.25" id="Matt.27.25"/><sup>25</sup>And all the people answered and said, His blood <i>be</i> on us, and on our children. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.27.26" data-parsed="Matt_27_26_0_0" data-passage="Matt 27.26" id="Matt.27.26"/><sup>26</sup>Then released he unto them Barabbas; but Jesus he scourged and delivered to be crucified.</p>
<p id="Matt.27-p4">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.27.27" data-parsed="Matt_27_27_0_0" data-passage="Matt 27.27" id="Matt.27.27"/><sup>27</sup>Then the soldiers of the governor took Jesus into the Praetorium, and gathered unto him the whole band. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.27.28" data-parsed="Matt_27_28_0_0" data-passage="Matt 27.28" id="Matt.27.28"/><sup>28</sup>And they stripped him, and put on him a scarlet robe. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.27.29" data-parsed="Matt_27_29_0_0" data-passage="Matt 27.29" id="Matt.27.29"/><sup>29</sup>And they platted a crown of thorns and put it upon his head, and a reed in his right hand; and they kneeled down before him, and mocked him, saying, Hail, King of the Jews! 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.27.30" data-parsed="Matt_27_30_0_0" data-passage="Matt 27.30" id="Matt.27.30"/><sup>30</sup>And they spat upon him, and took the reed and smote him on the head. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.27.31" data-parsed="Matt_27_31_0_0" data-passage="Matt 27.31" id="Matt.27.31"/><sup>31</sup>And when they had mocked him,
they took off from him the robe, and put on him his garments, and led him away to crucify him.</p>
<p id="Matt.27-p5">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.27.32" data-parsed="Matt_27_32_0_0" data-passage="Matt 27.32" id="Matt.27.32"/><sup>32</sup>And as they came out, they found a man of Cyrene, Simon by name: him they compelled to go <i>with them</i>, that he might bear his cross.</p>
<p id="Matt.27-p6">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.27.33" data-parsed="Matt_27_33_0_0" data-passage="Matt 27.33" id="Matt.27.33"/><sup>33</sup>And they were come unto a place called Golgotha, that is to say, The place of a skull, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.27.34" data-parsed="Matt_27_34_0_0" data-passage="Matt 27.34" id="Matt.27.34"/><sup>34</sup>they gave him wine to drink mingled with gall: and when he had tasted it, he would not drink. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.27.35" data-parsed="Matt_27_35_0_0" data-passage="Matt 27.35" id="Matt.27.35"/><sup>35</sup>And when they had crucified him, they parted his garments among them, casting lots; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.27.36" data-parsed="Matt_27_36_0_0" data-passage="Matt 27.36" id="Matt.27.36"/><sup>36</sup>and they sat and watched him there. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.27.37" data-parsed="Matt_27_37_0_0" data-passage="Matt 27.37" id="Matt.27.37"/><sup>37</sup>And they set up over his head his accusation written, THIS IS JESUS THE KING OF THE JEWS. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.27.38" data-parsed="Matt_27_38_0_0" data-passage="Matt 27.38" id="Matt.27.38"/><sup>38</sup>Then are there crucified with him two robbers, one on the right hand and one on the left. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.27.39" data-parsed="Matt_27_39_0_0" data-passage="Matt 27.39" id="Matt.27.39"/><sup>39</sup>And they that passed by railed on him, wagging their heads, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.27.40" data-parsed="Matt_27_40_0_0" data-passage="Matt 27.40" id="Matt.27.40"/><sup>40</sup>and saying,
Thou that destroyest the temple, and buildest it in three days, save thyself:
if thou art the Son of God, come down from the cross. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.27.41" data-parsed="Matt_27_41_0_0" data-passage="Matt 27.41" id="Matt.27.41"/><sup>41</sup>In like manner also the chief priests mocking <i>him</i>, with the scribes and elders,
said, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.27.42" data-parsed="Matt_27_42_0_0" data-passage="Matt 27.42" id="Matt.27.42"/><sup>42</sup>He saved others; himself he cannot save. He is the King of Israel; let him now come down from the cross, and we will believe on him.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.27.43" data-parsed="Matt_27_43_0_0" data-passage="Matt 27.43" id="Matt.27.43"/><sup>43</sup>He trusteth on God; let him deliver him now, if he desireth him: for he said, I am the Son of God. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.27.44" data-parsed="Matt_27_44_0_0" data-passage="Matt 27.44" id="Matt.27.44"/><sup>44</sup>And the robbers also that were crucified with him cast upon him the same reproach.</p>
<p id="Matt.27-p7">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.27.45" data-parsed="Matt_27_45_0_0" data-passage="Matt 27.45" id="Matt.27.45"/><sup>45</sup>Now from the sixth hour there was darkness over all the land until the ninth hour. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.27.46" data-parsed="Matt_27_46_0_0" data-passage="Matt 27.46" id="Matt.27.46"/><sup>46</sup>And about the ninth hour Jesus cried with a loud voice,
saying, Eli, Eli, lama sabachthani? that is, My God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.27.47" data-parsed="Matt_27_47_0_0" data-passage="Matt 27.47" id="Matt.27.47"/><sup>47</sup>And some of them stood there, when they heard it, said,
This man calleth Elijah. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.27.48" data-parsed="Matt_27_48_0_0" data-passage="Matt 27.48" id="Matt.27.48"/><sup>48</sup>And straightway one of them ran, and took a sponge, and filled it with vinegar, and put it on a reed, and gave him to drink. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.27.49" data-parsed="Matt_27_49_0_0" data-passage="Matt 27.49" id="Matt.27.49"/><sup>49</sup>And the rest said, Let be; let us see whether Elijah cometh to save him. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.27.50" data-parsed="Matt_27_50_0_0" data-passage="Matt 27.50" id="Matt.27.50"/><sup>50</sup>And Jesus cried again with a loud voice, and yielded up his spirit. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.27.51" data-parsed="Matt_27_51_0_0" data-passage="Matt 27.51" id="Matt.27.51"/><sup>51</sup>And behold, the veil of the temple was rent in two from the top to the bottom; and the earth did quake; and the rocks were rent; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.27.52" data-parsed="Matt_27_52_0_0" data-passage="Matt 27.52" id="Matt.27.52"/><sup>52</sup>and the tombs were opened; and many bodies of the saints that had fallen asleep were raised; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.27.53" data-parsed="Matt_27_53_0_0" data-passage="Matt 27.53" id="Matt.27.53"/><sup>53</sup>and coming forth out of the tombs after his resurrection they entered into the holy city and appeared unto many. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.27.54" data-parsed="Matt_27_54_0_0" data-passage="Matt 27.54" id="Matt.27.54"/><sup>54</sup>Now the centurion, and they that were with him watching Jesus, when they saw the earthquake, and the things that were done, feared exceedingly, saying, Truly this was the Son of God. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.27.55" data-parsed="Matt_27_55_0_0" data-passage="Matt 27.55" id="Matt.27.55"/><sup>55</sup>And many women were there beholding from afar,
who had followed Jesus from Galilee, ministering unto him: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.27.56" data-parsed="Matt_27_56_0_0" data-passage="Matt 27.56" id="Matt.27.56"/><sup>56</sup>among whom was Mary Magdalene, and Mary the mother of James and Joses, and the mother of the sons of Zebedee.</p>
<p id="Matt.27-p8">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.27.57" data-parsed="Matt_27_57_0_0" data-passage="Matt 27.57" id="Matt.27.57"/><sup>57</sup>And when even was come, there came a rich man from Arimathaea, named Joseph, who also himself was Jesus' disciple: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.27.58" data-parsed="Matt_27_58_0_0" data-passage="Matt 27.58" id="Matt.27.58"/><sup>58</sup>this man went to Pilate,
and asked for the body of Jesus. Then Pilate commanded it to be given up.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.27.59" data-parsed="Matt_27_59_0_0" data-passage="Matt 27.59" id="Matt.27.59"/><sup>59</sup>And Joseph took the body, and wrapped it in a clean linen cloth,

<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.27.60" data-parsed="Matt_27_60_0_0" data-passage="Matt 27.60" id="Matt.27.60"/><sup>60</sup>and laid it in his own new tomb, which he had hewn out in the rock: and he rolled a great stone to the door of the tomb, and departed. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.27.61" data-parsed="Matt_27_61_0_0" data-passage="Matt 27.61" id="Matt.27.61"/><sup>61</sup>And Mary Magdalene was there, and the other Mary, sitting over against the sepulchre.</p>
<p id="Matt.27-p9">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.27.62" data-parsed="Matt_27_62_0_0" data-passage="Matt 27.62" id="Matt.27.62"/><sup>62</sup>Now on the morrow, which is <i>the day</i> after the Preparation, the chief priests and the Pharisees were gathered together unto Pilate,

<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.27.63" data-parsed="Matt_27_63_0_0" data-passage="Matt 27.63" id="Matt.27.63"/><sup>63</sup>saying, Sir, we remember that that deceiver said while he was yet alive, After three days I rise again. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.27.64" data-parsed="Matt_27_64_0_0" data-passage="Matt 27.64" id="Matt.27.64"/><sup>64</sup>Command therefore that the sepulchre be made sure until the third day, lest haply his disciples come and steal him away, and say unto the people, He is risen from the dead: and the last error will be worse than the first. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.27.65" data-parsed="Matt_27_65_0_0" data-passage="Matt 27.65" id="Matt.27.65"/><sup>65</sup>Pilate said unto them, Ye have a guard: go, make it <i>as</i> sure as ye can. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.27.66" data-parsed="Matt_27_66_0_0" data-passage="Matt 27.66" id="Matt.27.66"/><sup>66</sup>So they went, and made the sepulchre sure, sealing the stone, the guard being with them.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>