<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Matthew 28</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Matthew 28</span></div><div data-next="Mark" data-prev="Matt.27" data-progress="80.28%" data-shorttitle="" id="Matt.28" title="Matthew 28">
<h2 id="Matt.28-p0.1">28</h2>
<p id="Matt.28-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.28.1" data-parsed="Matt_28_1_0_0" data-passage="Matt 28.1" id="Matt.28.1"/><sup>1</sup>Now late on the sabbath day, as it began to dawn toward the first <i>day</i> of the week, came Mary Magdalene and the other Mary to see the sepulchre. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.28.2" data-parsed="Matt_28_2_0_0" data-passage="Matt 28.2" id="Matt.28.2"/><sup>2</sup>And behold, there was a great earthquake; for an angel of the Lord descended from heaven, and came and rolled away the stone, and sat upon it. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.28.3" data-parsed="Matt_28_3_0_0" data-passage="Matt 28.3" id="Matt.28.3"/><sup>3</sup>His appearance was as lightning, and his raiment white as snow:

<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.28.4" data-parsed="Matt_28_4_0_0" data-passage="Matt 28.4" id="Matt.28.4"/><sup>4</sup>and for fear of him the watchers did quake, and became as dead men.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.28.5" data-parsed="Matt_28_5_0_0" data-passage="Matt 28.5" id="Matt.28.5"/><sup>5</sup>And the angel answered and said unto the women, Fear not ye; for I know that ye seek Jesus, who hath been crucified. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.28.6" data-parsed="Matt_28_6_0_0" data-passage="Matt 28.6" id="Matt.28.6"/><sup>6</sup>He is not here; for he is risen, even as he said. Come, see the place where the Lord lay. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.28.7" data-parsed="Matt_28_7_0_0" data-passage="Matt 28.7" id="Matt.28.7"/><sup>7</sup>And go quickly, and tell his disciples, He is risen from the dead; and lo, he goeth before you into Galilee; there shall ye see him: lo, I have told you.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.28.8" data-parsed="Matt_28_8_0_0" data-passage="Matt 28.8" id="Matt.28.8"/><sup>8</sup>And they departed quickly from the tomb with fear and great joy, and ran to bring his disciples word. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.28.9" data-parsed="Matt_28_9_0_0" data-passage="Matt 28.9" id="Matt.28.9"/><sup>9</sup>And behold, Jesus met them, saying, All hail. And they came and took hold of his feet, and worshipped him. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.28.10" data-parsed="Matt_28_10_0_0" data-passage="Matt 28.10" id="Matt.28.10"/><sup>10</sup>Then saith Jesus unto them, Fear not: go tell my brethren that they depart into Galilee, and there shall they see me.</p>
<p id="Matt.28-p2">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.28.11" data-parsed="Matt_28_11_0_0" data-passage="Matt 28.11" id="Matt.28.11"/><sup>11</sup>Now while they were going, behold, some of the guard came into the city, and told unto the chief priests all the things that were come to pass.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.28.12" data-parsed="Matt_28_12_0_0" data-passage="Matt 28.12" id="Matt.28.12"/><sup>12</sup>And when they were assembled with the elders, and had taken counsel,
they gave much money unto the soldiers, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.28.13" data-parsed="Matt_28_13_0_0" data-passage="Matt 28.13" id="Matt.28.13"/><sup>13</sup>saying, Say ye, His disciples came by night, and stole him away while we slept. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.28.14" data-parsed="Matt_28_14_0_0" data-passage="Matt 28.14" id="Matt.28.14"/><sup>14</sup>And if this come to the governor's ears, we will persuade him, and rid you of care. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.28.15" data-parsed="Matt_28_15_0_0" data-passage="Matt 28.15" id="Matt.28.15"/><sup>15</sup>So they took the money, and did as they were taught: and this saying was spread abroad among the Jews, <i>and continueth</i> until this day.</p>
<p id="Matt.28-p3">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.28.16" data-parsed="Matt_28_16_0_0" data-passage="Matt 28.16" id="Matt.28.16"/><sup>16</sup>But the eleven disciples went into Galilee, unto the mountain where Jesus had appointed them. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.28.17" data-parsed="Matt_28_17_0_0" data-passage="Matt 28.17" id="Matt.28.17"/><sup>17</sup>And when they saw him, they worshipped <i>him</i>; but some doubted. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.28.18" data-parsed="Matt_28_18_0_0" data-passage="Matt 28.18" id="Matt.28.18"/><sup>18</sup>And Jesus came to them and spake unto them, saying, All authority hath been given unto me in heaven and on earth.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.28.19" data-parsed="Matt_28_19_0_0" data-passage="Matt 28.19" id="Matt.28.19"/><sup>19</sup>Go ye therefore, and make disciples of all the nations, baptizing them into the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Spirit:

<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.28.20" data-parsed="Matt_28_20_0_0" data-passage="Matt 28.20" id="Matt.28.20"/><sup>20</sup>teaching them to observe all things whatsoever I commanded you: and lo,
I am with you always, even unto the end of the world.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>