<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Matthew 14</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Matthew 14</span></div><div data-next="Matt.15" data-prev="Matt.13" data-progress="78.66%" data-shorttitle="" id="Matt.14" title="Matthew 14">
<h2 id="Matt.14-p0.1">14</h2>
<p id="Matt.14-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.14.1" data-parsed="Matt_14_1_0_0" data-passage="Matt 14.1" id="Matt.14.1"/><sup>1</sup>At that season Herod the tetrarch heard the report concerning Jesus, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.14.2" data-parsed="Matt_14_2_0_0" data-passage="Matt 14.2" id="Matt.14.2"/><sup>2</sup>and said unto his servants, This is John the Baptist; he is risen from the dead; and therefore do these powers work in him. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.14.3" data-parsed="Matt_14_3_0_0" data-passage="Matt 14.3" id="Matt.14.3"/><sup>3</sup>For Herod had laid hold on John, and bound him, and put him in prison for the sake of Herodias, his brother Philip's wife. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.14.4" data-parsed="Matt_14_4_0_0" data-passage="Matt 14.4" id="Matt.14.4"/><sup>4</sup>For John said unto him, It is not lawful for thee to have her. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.14.5" data-parsed="Matt_14_5_0_0" data-passage="Matt 14.5" id="Matt.14.5"/><sup>5</sup>And when he would have put him to death, he feared the multitude, because they counted him as a prophet. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.14.6" data-parsed="Matt_14_6_0_0" data-passage="Matt 14.6" id="Matt.14.6"/><sup>6</sup>But when Herod's birthday came, the daughter of Herodias danced in the midst, and pleased Herod. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.14.7" data-parsed="Matt_14_7_0_0" data-passage="Matt 14.7" id="Matt.14.7"/><sup>7</sup>Whereupon he promised with an oath to give her whatsoever she should ask. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.14.8" data-parsed="Matt_14_8_0_0" data-passage="Matt 14.8" id="Matt.14.8"/><sup>8</sup>And she, being put forward by her mother, saith, Give me here on a platter the head of John the Baptist. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.14.9" data-parsed="Matt_14_9_0_0" data-passage="Matt 14.9" id="Matt.14.9"/><sup>9</sup>And the king was grieved; but for the sake of his oaths, and of them that sat at meat with him, he commanded it to be given; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.14.10" data-parsed="Matt_14_10_0_0" data-passage="Matt 14.10" id="Matt.14.10"/><sup>10</sup>and he sent and beheaded John in the prison. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.14.11" data-parsed="Matt_14_11_0_0" data-passage="Matt 14.11" id="Matt.14.11"/><sup>11</sup>And his head was brought on a platter, and given to the damsel:
and she brought it to her mother. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.14.12" data-parsed="Matt_14_12_0_0" data-passage="Matt 14.12" id="Matt.14.12"/><sup>12</sup>And his disciples came, and took up the corpse, and buried him; and they went and told Jesus.</p>
<p id="Matt.14-p2">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.14.13" data-parsed="Matt_14_13_0_0" data-passage="Matt 14.13" id="Matt.14.13"/><sup>13</sup>Now when Jesus heard <i>it</i>, he withdrew from thence in a boat, to a desert place apart: and when the multitudes heard <i>thereof,</i> they followed him on foot from the cities. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.14.14" data-parsed="Matt_14_14_0_0" data-passage="Matt 14.14" id="Matt.14.14"/><sup>14</sup>And he came forth, and saw a great multitude, and he had compassion on them, and healed their sick.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.14.15" data-parsed="Matt_14_15_0_0" data-passage="Matt 14.15" id="Matt.14.15"/><sup>15</sup>And when even was come, the disciples came to him, saying, The place is desert, and the time is already past; send the multitudes away, that they may go into the villages, and buy themselves food. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.14.16" data-parsed="Matt_14_16_0_0" data-passage="Matt 14.16" id="Matt.14.16"/><sup>16</sup>But Jesus said unto them, They have no need to go away; give ye them to eat. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.14.17" data-parsed="Matt_14_17_0_0" data-passage="Matt 14.17" id="Matt.14.17"/><sup>17</sup>And they say unto him, We have here but five loaves, and two fishes. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.14.18" data-parsed="Matt_14_18_0_0" data-passage="Matt 14.18" id="Matt.14.18"/><sup>18</sup>And he said,
Bring them hither to me. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.14.19" data-parsed="Matt_14_19_0_0" data-passage="Matt 14.19" id="Matt.14.19"/><sup>19</sup>And he commanded the multitudes to sit down on the grass; and he took the five loaves, and the two fishes, and looking up to heaven, he blessed, and brake and gave the loaves to the disciples, and the disciples to the multitudes. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.14.20" data-parsed="Matt_14_20_0_0" data-passage="Matt 14.20" id="Matt.14.20"/><sup>20</sup>And they all ate, and were filled: and they took up that which remained over of the broken pieces, twelve baskets full. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.14.21" data-parsed="Matt_14_21_0_0" data-passage="Matt 14.21" id="Matt.14.21"/><sup>21</sup>And they that did eat were about five thousand men, besides women and children.</p>
<p id="Matt.14-p3">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.14.22" data-parsed="Matt_14_22_0_0" data-passage="Matt 14.22" id="Matt.14.22"/><sup>22</sup>And straightway he constrained the disciples to enter into the boat,
and to go before him unto the other side, till he should send the multitudes away. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.14.23" data-parsed="Matt_14_23_0_0" data-passage="Matt 14.23" id="Matt.14.23"/><sup>23</sup>And after he had sent the multitudes away, he went up into the mountain apart to pray: and when even was come, he was there alone. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.14.24" data-parsed="Matt_14_24_0_0" data-passage="Matt 14.24" id="Matt.14.24"/><sup>24</sup>But the boat was now in the midst of the sea, distressed by the waves; for the wind was contrary. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.14.25" data-parsed="Matt_14_25_0_0" data-passage="Matt 14.25" id="Matt.14.25"/><sup>25</sup>And in the fourth watch of the night he came unto them, walking upon the sea. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.14.26" data-parsed="Matt_14_26_0_0" data-passage="Matt 14.26" id="Matt.14.26"/><sup>26</sup>And when the disciples saw him walking on the sea, they were troubled, saying, It is a ghost; and they cried out for fear. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.14.27" data-parsed="Matt_14_27_0_0" data-passage="Matt 14.27" id="Matt.14.27"/><sup>27</sup>But straightway Jesus spake unto them, saying Be of good cheer;
it is I; be not afraid. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.14.28" data-parsed="Matt_14_28_0_0" data-passage="Matt 14.28" id="Matt.14.28"/><sup>28</sup>And Peter answered him and said, Lord, if it be thou, bid me come unto them upon the waters. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.14.29" data-parsed="Matt_14_29_0_0" data-passage="Matt 14.29" id="Matt.14.29"/><sup>29</sup>And he said, Come. And Peter went down from the boat, and walked upon the waters to come to Jesus.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.14.30" data-parsed="Matt_14_30_0_0" data-passage="Matt 14.30" id="Matt.14.30"/><sup>30</sup>But when he saw the wind, he was afraid; and beginning to sink, he cried out, saying, Lord, save me. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.14.31" data-parsed="Matt_14_31_0_0" data-passage="Matt 14.31" id="Matt.14.31"/><sup>31</sup>And immediately Jesus stretched forth his hand, and took hold of him, and saith unto him, O thou of little faith,
wherefore didst thou doubt? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.14.32" data-parsed="Matt_14_32_0_0" data-passage="Matt 14.32" id="Matt.14.32"/><sup>32</sup>And when they were gone up into the boat,
the wind ceased. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.14.33" data-parsed="Matt_14_33_0_0" data-passage="Matt 14.33" id="Matt.14.33"/><sup>33</sup>And they that were in the boat worshipped him, saying,
Of a truth thou art the Son of God.</p>
<p id="Matt.14-p4">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.14.34" data-parsed="Matt_14_34_0_0" data-passage="Matt 14.34" id="Matt.14.34"/><sup>34</sup>And when they had crossed over, they came to the land, unto Gennesaret.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.14.35" data-parsed="Matt_14_35_0_0" data-passage="Matt 14.35" id="Matt.14.35"/><sup>35</sup>And when the men of that place knew him, they sent into all that region round about, and brought unto him all that were sick, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.14.36" data-parsed="Matt_14_36_0_0" data-passage="Matt 14.36" id="Matt.14.36"/><sup>36</sup>and they besought him that they might only touch the border of his garment: and as many as touched were made whole.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>