<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Matthew 6</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Matthew 6</span></div><div data-next="Matt.7" data-prev="Matt.5" data-progress="77.78%" data-shorttitle="" id="Matt.6" title="Matthew 6">
<h2 id="Matt.6-p0.1">6</h2>
<p id="Matt.6-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.6.1" data-parsed="Matt_6_1_0_0" data-passage="Matt 6.1" id="Matt.6.1"/><sup>1</sup>Take heed that ye do not your righteousness before men, to be seen of them: else ye have no reward with your Father who is in heaven. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.6.2" data-parsed="Matt_6_2_0_0" data-passage="Matt 6.2" id="Matt.6.2"/><sup>2</sup>When therefore thou doest alms, sound not a trumpet before thee, as the hypocrites do in the synagogues and in the streets, that they may have glory of men.
Verily I say unto you, They have received their reward. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.6.3" data-parsed="Matt_6_3_0_0" data-passage="Matt 6.3" id="Matt.6.3"/><sup>3</sup>But when thou doest alms, let not thy left hand know what thy right hand doeth: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.6.4" data-parsed="Matt_6_4_0_0" data-passage="Matt 6.4" id="Matt.6.4"/><sup>4</sup>that thine alms may be in secret: and thy Father who seeth in secret shall recompense thee.</p>
<p id="Matt.6-p2">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.6.5" data-parsed="Matt_6_5_0_0" data-passage="Matt 6.5" id="Matt.6.5"/><sup>5</sup>And when ye pray, ye shall not be as the hypocrites: for they love to stand and pray in the synagogues and in the corners of the streets, that they may be seen of men. Verily I say unto you, They have received their reward.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.6.6" data-parsed="Matt_6_6_0_0" data-passage="Matt 6.6" id="Matt.6.6"/><sup>6</sup>But thou, when thou prayest, enter into thine inner chamber, and having shut thy door, pray to thy Father who is in secret, and thy Father who seeth in secret shall recompense thee. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.6.7" data-parsed="Matt_6_7_0_0" data-passage="Matt 6.7" id="Matt.6.7"/><sup>7</sup>And in praying use not vain repetitions, as the Gentiles do: for they think that they shall be heard for their much speaking. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.6.8" data-parsed="Matt_6_8_0_0" data-passage="Matt 6.8" id="Matt.6.8"/><sup>8</sup>Be not therefore like unto them: for your Father knoweth what things ye have need of, before ye ask him. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.6.9" data-parsed="Matt_6_9_0_0" data-passage="Matt 6.9" id="Matt.6.9"/><sup>9</sup>After this manner therefore pray ye. Our Father who art in heaven, Hallowed be thy name.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.6.10" data-parsed="Matt_6_10_0_0" data-passage="Matt 6.10" id="Matt.6.10"/><sup>10</sup>Thy kingdom come. Thy will be done, as in heaven, so on earth.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.6.11" data-parsed="Matt_6_11_0_0" data-passage="Matt 6.11" id="Matt.6.11"/><sup>11</sup>Give us this day our daily bread. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.6.12" data-parsed="Matt_6_12_0_0" data-passage="Matt 6.12" id="Matt.6.12"/><sup>12</sup>And forgive us our debts, as we also have forgiven our debtors. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.6.13" data-parsed="Matt_6_13_0_0" data-passage="Matt 6.13" id="Matt.6.13"/><sup>13</sup>And bring us not into temptation, but deliver us from the evil <i>one.</i>
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.6.14" data-parsed="Matt_6_14_0_0" data-passage="Matt 6.14" id="Matt.6.14"/><sup>14</sup>For if ye forgive men their trespasses, your heavenly Father will also forgive you. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.6.15" data-parsed="Matt_6_15_0_0" data-passage="Matt 6.15" id="Matt.6.15"/><sup>15</sup>But if ye forgive not men their trespasses, neither will your Father forgive your trespasses.</p>
<p id="Matt.6-p3">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.6.16" data-parsed="Matt_6_16_0_0" data-passage="Matt 6.16" id="Matt.6.16"/><sup>16</sup>Moreover when ye fast, be not, as the hypocrites, of a sad countenance:
for they disfigure their faces, that they may be seen of men to fast. Verily I say unto you, They have received their reward. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.6.17" data-parsed="Matt_6_17_0_0" data-passage="Matt 6.17" id="Matt.6.17"/><sup>17</sup>But thou, when thou fastest, anoint thy head, and wash thy face; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.6.18" data-parsed="Matt_6_18_0_0" data-passage="Matt 6.18" id="Matt.6.18"/><sup>18</sup>that thou be not seen of men to fast, but of thy Father who is in secret: and thy Father, who seeth in secret, shall recompense thee.</p>
<p id="Matt.6-p4">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.6.19" data-parsed="Matt_6_19_0_0" data-passage="Matt 6.19" id="Matt.6.19"/><sup>19</sup>Lay not up for yourselves treasures upon the earth, where moth and rust consume, and where thieves break through and steal: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.6.20" data-parsed="Matt_6_20_0_0" data-passage="Matt 6.20" id="Matt.6.20"/><sup>20</sup>but lay up for yourselves treasures in heaven, where neither moth nor rust doth consume, and where thieves do not break through nor steal: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.6.21" data-parsed="Matt_6_21_0_0" data-passage="Matt 6.21" id="Matt.6.21"/><sup>21</sup>for where thy treasure is, there will thy heart be also. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.6.22" data-parsed="Matt_6_22_0_0" data-passage="Matt 6.22" id="Matt.6.22"/><sup>22</sup>The lamp of the body is the eye: if therefore thine eye be single, thy whole body shall be full of light.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.6.23" data-parsed="Matt_6_23_0_0" data-passage="Matt 6.23" id="Matt.6.23"/><sup>23</sup>But if thine eye be evil, thy whole body shall be full of darkness. If therefore the light that is in thee be darkness, how great is the darkness!

<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.6.24" data-parsed="Matt_6_24_0_0" data-passage="Matt 6.24" id="Matt.6.24"/><sup>24</sup>No man can serve two masters; for either he will hate the one, and love the other; or else he will hold to one, and despise the other. Ye cannot serve God and mammon. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.6.25" data-parsed="Matt_6_25_0_0" data-passage="Matt 6.25" id="Matt.6.25"/><sup>25</sup>Therefore I say unto you, be not anxious for your life, what ye shall eat, or what ye shall drink; nor yet for your body, what ye shall put on. Is not the life more than the food, and the body than the raiment? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.6.26" data-parsed="Matt_6_26_0_0" data-passage="Matt 6.26" id="Matt.6.26"/><sup>26</sup>Behold the birds of the heaven, that they sow not, neither do they reap, nor gather into barns; and your heavenly Father feedeth them. Are not ye of much more value then they? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.6.27" data-parsed="Matt_6_27_0_0" data-passage="Matt 6.27" id="Matt.6.27"/><sup>27</sup>And which of you by being anxious can add one cubit unto the measure of his life? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.6.28" data-parsed="Matt_6_28_0_0" data-passage="Matt 6.28" id="Matt.6.28"/><sup>28</sup>And why are ye anxious concerning raiment? Consider the lilies of the field, how they grow; they toil not, neither do they spin: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.6.29" data-parsed="Matt_6_29_0_0" data-passage="Matt 6.29" id="Matt.6.29"/><sup>29</sup>yet I say unto you, that even Solomon in all his glory was not arrayed like one of these. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.6.30" data-parsed="Matt_6_30_0_0" data-passage="Matt 6.30" id="Matt.6.30"/><sup>30</sup>But if God doth so clothe the grass of the field, which to-day is, and to-morrow is cast into the oven, <i>shall he</i> not much more <i>clothe</i> you, O ye of little faith? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.6.31" data-parsed="Matt_6_31_0_0" data-passage="Matt 6.31" id="Matt.6.31"/><sup>31</sup>Be not therefore anxious, saying, What shall we eat? or, What shall we drink? or, Wherewithal shall we be clothed? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.6.32" data-parsed="Matt_6_32_0_0" data-passage="Matt 6.32" id="Matt.6.32"/><sup>32</sup>For after all these things do the Gentiles seek; for your heavenly Father knoweth that ye have need of all these things. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.6.33" data-parsed="Matt_6_33_0_0" data-passage="Matt 6.33" id="Matt.6.33"/><sup>33</sup>But seek ye first his kingdom, and his righteousness; and all these things shall be added unto you. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.6.34" data-parsed="Matt_6_34_0_0" data-passage="Matt 6.34" id="Matt.6.34"/><sup>34</sup>Be not therefore anxious for the morrow: for the morrow will be anxious for itself.
Sufficient unto the day is the evil thereof.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>