<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Matthew 5</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Matthew 5</span></div><div data-next="Matt.6" data-prev="Matt.4" data-progress="77.65%" data-shorttitle="" id="Matt.5" title="Matthew 5">
<h2 id="Matt.5-p0.1">5</h2>
<p id="Matt.5-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.5.1" data-parsed="Matt_5_1_0_0" data-passage="Matt 5.1" id="Matt.5.1"/><sup>1</sup>And seeing the multitudes, he went up into the mountain: and when he had sat down, his disciples came unto him: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.5.2" data-parsed="Matt_5_2_0_0" data-passage="Matt 5.2" id="Matt.5.2"/><sup>2</sup>and he opened his mouth and taught them, saying,</p>
<p id="Matt.5-p2">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.5.3" data-parsed="Matt_5_3_0_0" data-passage="Matt 5.3" id="Matt.5.3"/><sup>3</sup>Blessed are the poor in spirit: for theirs is the kingdom of heaven.</p>
<p id="Matt.5-p3">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.5.4" data-parsed="Matt_5_4_0_0" data-passage="Matt 5.4" id="Matt.5.4"/><sup>4</sup>Blessed are they that mourn: for they shall be comforted.</p>
<p id="Matt.5-p4">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.5.5" data-parsed="Matt_5_5_0_0" data-passage="Matt 5.5" id="Matt.5.5"/><sup>5</sup>Blessed are the meek: for they shall inherit the earth.</p>
<p id="Matt.5-p5">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.5.6" data-parsed="Matt_5_6_0_0" data-passage="Matt 5.6" id="Matt.5.6"/><sup>6</sup>Blessed are they that hunger and thirst after righteousness: for they shall be filled.</p>
<p id="Matt.5-p6">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.5.7" data-parsed="Matt_5_7_0_0" data-passage="Matt 5.7" id="Matt.5.7"/><sup>7</sup>Blessed are the merciful: for they shall obtain mercy.</p>
<p id="Matt.5-p7">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.5.8" data-parsed="Matt_5_8_0_0" data-passage="Matt 5.8" id="Matt.5.8"/><sup>8</sup>Blessed are the pure in heart: for they shall see God.</p>
<p id="Matt.5-p8">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.5.9" data-parsed="Matt_5_9_0_0" data-passage="Matt 5.9" id="Matt.5.9"/><sup>9</sup>Blessed are the peacemakers: for they shall be called sons of God.</p>
<p id="Matt.5-p9">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.5.10" data-parsed="Matt_5_10_0_0" data-passage="Matt 5.10" id="Matt.5.10"/><sup>10</sup>Blessed are they that have been persecuted for righteousness' sake: for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.5.11" data-parsed="Matt_5_11_0_0" data-passage="Matt 5.11" id="Matt.5.11"/><sup>11</sup>Blessed are ye when <i>men</i> shall reproach you, and persecute you, and say all manner of evil against you falsely, for my sake. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.5.12" data-parsed="Matt_5_12_0_0" data-passage="Matt 5.12" id="Matt.5.12"/><sup>12</sup>Rejoice, and be exceeding glad: for great is your reward in heaven: for so persecuted they the prophets that were before you.</p>
<p id="Matt.5-p10">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.5.13" data-parsed="Matt_5_13_0_0" data-passage="Matt 5.13" id="Matt.5.13"/><sup>13</sup>Ye are the salt of the earth: but if the salt have lost its savor,
wherewith shall it be salted? it is thenceforth good for nothing, but to be cast out and trodden under foot of men. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.5.14" data-parsed="Matt_5_14_0_0" data-passage="Matt 5.14" id="Matt.5.14"/><sup>14</sup>Ye are the light of the world.
A city set on a hill cannot be hid. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.5.15" data-parsed="Matt_5_15_0_0" data-passage="Matt 5.15" id="Matt.5.15"/><sup>15</sup>Neither do <i>men</i> light a lamp, and put it under the bushel, but on the stand; and it shineth unto all that are in the house. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.5.16" data-parsed="Matt_5_16_0_0" data-passage="Matt 5.16" id="Matt.5.16"/><sup>16</sup>Even so let your light shine before men; that they may see your good works, and glorify your Father who is in heaven.</p>
<p id="Matt.5-p11">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.5.17" data-parsed="Matt_5_17_0_0" data-passage="Matt 5.17" id="Matt.5.17"/><sup>17</sup>Think not that I came to destroy the law or the prophets: I came not to destroy, but to fulfil. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.5.18" data-parsed="Matt_5_18_0_0" data-passage="Matt 5.18" id="Matt.5.18"/><sup>18</sup>For verily I say unto you, Till heaven and earth pass away, one jot or one tittle shall in no wise pass away from the law, till all things be accomplished. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.5.19" data-parsed="Matt_5_19_0_0" data-passage="Matt 5.19" id="Matt.5.19"/><sup>19</sup>Whosoever therefore shall break one of these least commandments, and shall teach men so, shall be called least in the kingdom of heaven: but whosoever shall do and teach them, he shall be called great in the kingdom of heaven. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.5.20" data-parsed="Matt_5_20_0_0" data-passage="Matt 5.20" id="Matt.5.20"/><sup>20</sup>For I say unto you,
that except your righteousness shall exceed <i>the righteousness</i> of the scribes and Pharisees, ye shall in no wise enter into the kingdom of heaven.</p>
<p id="Matt.5-p12">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.5.21" data-parsed="Matt_5_21_0_0" data-passage="Matt 5.21" id="Matt.5.21"/><sup>21</sup>Ye have heard that it was said to them of old time, Thou shalt not kill; and whosoever shall kill shall be in danger of the judgment: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.5.22" data-parsed="Matt_5_22_0_0" data-passage="Matt 5.22" id="Matt.5.22"/><sup>22</sup>but I say unto you, that every one who is angry with his brother shall be in danger of the judgment; and whosoever shall say to his brother, Raca, shall be in danger of the council; and whosoever shall say, Thou fool, shall be in danger of the hell of fire. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.5.23" data-parsed="Matt_5_23_0_0" data-passage="Matt 5.23" id="Matt.5.23"/><sup>23</sup>If therefore thou art offering thy gift at the altar, and there rememberest that thy brother hath aught against thee,

<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.5.24" data-parsed="Matt_5_24_0_0" data-passage="Matt 5.24" id="Matt.5.24"/><sup>24</sup>leave there thy gift before the altar, and go thy way, first be reconciled to thy brother, and then come and offer thy gift. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.5.25" data-parsed="Matt_5_25_0_0" data-passage="Matt 5.25" id="Matt.5.25"/><sup>25</sup>Agree with thine adversary quickly, while thou art with him in the way; lest haply the adversary deliver thee to the judge, and the judge deliver thee to the officer, and thou be cast into prison. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.5.26" data-parsed="Matt_5_26_0_0" data-passage="Matt 5.26" id="Matt.5.26"/><sup>26</sup>Verily I say unto thee, thou shalt by no means come out thence, till thou have paid the last farthing.</p>
<p id="Matt.5-p13">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.5.27" data-parsed="Matt_5_27_0_0" data-passage="Matt 5.27" id="Matt.5.27"/><sup>27</sup>Ye have heard that it was said, Thou shalt not commit adultery:

<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.5.28" data-parsed="Matt_5_28_0_0" data-passage="Matt 5.28" id="Matt.5.28"/><sup>28</sup>but I say unto you, that every one that looketh on a woman to lust after her hath committed adultery with her already in his heart. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.5.29" data-parsed="Matt_5_29_0_0" data-passage="Matt 5.29" id="Matt.5.29"/><sup>29</sup>And if thy right eye causeth thee to stumble, pluck it out, and cast it from thee:
for it is profitable for thee that one of thy members should perish, and not thy whole body be cast into hell. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.5.30" data-parsed="Matt_5_30_0_0" data-passage="Matt 5.30" id="Matt.5.30"/><sup>30</sup>And if thy right hand causeth thee to stumble, cut it off, and cast it from thee: for it is profitable for thee that one of thy members should perish, and not thy whole body go into hell.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.5.31" data-parsed="Matt_5_31_0_0" data-passage="Matt 5.31" id="Matt.5.31"/><sup>31</sup>It was said also, Whosoever shall put away his wife, let him give her a writing of divorcement: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.5.32" data-parsed="Matt_5_32_0_0" data-passage="Matt 5.32" id="Matt.5.32"/><sup>32</sup>but I say unto you, that every one that putteth away his wife, saving for the cause of fornication, maketh her an adulteress:
and whosoever shall marry her when she is put away committeth adultery.</p>
<p id="Matt.5-p14">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.5.33" data-parsed="Matt_5_33_0_0" data-passage="Matt 5.33" id="Matt.5.33"/><sup>33</sup>Again, ye have heard that it was said to them of old time, Thou shalt not forswear thyself, but shalt perform unto the Lord thine oaths: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.5.34" data-parsed="Matt_5_34_0_0" data-passage="Matt 5.34" id="Matt.5.34"/><sup>34</sup>but I say unto you, swear not at all; neither by the heaven, for it is the throne of God; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.5.35" data-parsed="Matt_5_35_0_0" data-passage="Matt 5.35" id="Matt.5.35"/><sup>35</sup>nor by the earth, for it is the footstool of his feet; nor by Jerusalem, for it is the city of the great King. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.5.36" data-parsed="Matt_5_36_0_0" data-passage="Matt 5.36" id="Matt.5.36"/><sup>36</sup>Neither shalt thou swear by thy head, for thou canst not make one hair white or black. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.5.37" data-parsed="Matt_5_37_0_0" data-passage="Matt 5.37" id="Matt.5.37"/><sup>37</sup>But let your speech be, Yea, yea; Nay, nay: and whatsoever is more than these is of the evil <i>one</i>.</p>
<p id="Matt.5-p15">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.5.38" data-parsed="Matt_5_38_0_0" data-passage="Matt 5.38" id="Matt.5.38"/><sup>38</sup>Ye have heard that it was said, An eye for an eye, and a tooth for a tooth: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.5.39" data-parsed="Matt_5_39_0_0" data-passage="Matt 5.39" id="Matt.5.39"/><sup>39</sup>but I say unto you, resist not him that is evil: but whosoever smiteth thee on thy right cheek, turn to him the other also. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.5.40" data-parsed="Matt_5_40_0_0" data-passage="Matt 5.40" id="Matt.5.40"/><sup>40</sup>And if any man would go to law with thee, and take away thy coat, let him have thy cloak also. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.5.41" data-parsed="Matt_5_41_0_0" data-passage="Matt 5.41" id="Matt.5.41"/><sup>41</sup>And whosoever shall compel thee to go one mile, go with him two.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.5.42" data-parsed="Matt_5_42_0_0" data-passage="Matt 5.42" id="Matt.5.42"/><sup>42</sup>Give to him that asketh thee, and from him that would borrow of thee turn not thou away.</p>
<p id="Matt.5-p16">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.5.43" data-parsed="Matt_5_43_0_0" data-passage="Matt 5.43" id="Matt.5.43"/><sup>43</sup>Ye have heard that it was said, Thou shalt love thy neighbor, and hate thine enemy: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.5.44" data-parsed="Matt_5_44_0_0" data-passage="Matt 5.44" id="Matt.5.44"/><sup>44</sup>but I say unto you, love your enemies, and pray for them that persecute you; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.5.45" data-parsed="Matt_5_45_0_0" data-passage="Matt 5.45" id="Matt.5.45"/><sup>45</sup>that ye may be sons of your Father who is in heaven: for he maketh his sun to rise on the evil and the good, and sendeth rain on the just and the unjust. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.5.46" data-parsed="Matt_5_46_0_0" data-passage="Matt 5.46" id="Matt.5.46"/><sup>46</sup>For if ye love them that love you,
what reward have ye? do not even the publicans the same? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.5.47" data-parsed="Matt_5_47_0_0" data-passage="Matt 5.47" id="Matt.5.47"/><sup>47</sup>And if ye salute your brethren only, what do ye more <i>than others?</i> do not even the Gentiles the same? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Matt.5.48" data-parsed="Matt_5_48_0_0" data-passage="Matt 5.48" id="Matt.5.48"/><sup>48</sup>Ye therefore shall be perfect, as your heavenly Father is perfect.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>