<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Micah 2</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Micah 2</span></div><div data-next="Mic.3" data-prev="Mic.1" data-progress="75.38%" data-shorttitle="" id="Mic.2" title="Micah 2">
<h2 id="Mic.2-p0.1">2</h2>
<p id="Mic.2-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mic.2.1" data-parsed="Mic_2_1_0_0" data-passage="Mic 2.1" id="Mic.2.1"/><sup>1</sup>Woe to them that devise iniquity and work evil upon their beds!
when the morning is light, they practise it, because it is in the power of their hand. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mic.2.2" data-parsed="Mic_2_2_0_0" data-passage="Mic 2.2" id="Mic.2.2"/><sup>2</sup>And they covet fields, and seize them; and houses, and take them away: and they oppress a man and his house, even a man and his heritage.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Mic.2.3" data-parsed="Mic_2_3_0_0" data-passage="Mic 2.3" id="Mic.2.3"/><sup>3</sup>Therefore thus saith Jehovah: Behold, against this family do I devise an evil, from which ye shall not remove your necks, neither shall ye walk haughtily; for it is an evil time. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mic.2.4" data-parsed="Mic_2_4_0_0" data-passage="Mic 2.4" id="Mic.2.4"/><sup>4</sup>In that day shall they take up a parable against you, and lament with a doleful lamentation, <i>and</i> say,
We are utterly ruined: he changeth the portion of my people: how doth he remove <i>it</i> from me! to the rebellious he divideth our fields.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Mic.2.5" data-parsed="Mic_2_5_0_0" data-passage="Mic 2.5" id="Mic.2.5"/><sup>5</sup>Therefore thou shalt have none that shall cast the line by lot in the assembly of Jehovah. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mic.2.6" data-parsed="Mic_2_6_0_0" data-passage="Mic 2.6" id="Mic.2.6"/><sup>6</sup>Prophesy ye not, <i>thus</i> they prophesy. They shall not prophesy to these: reproaches shall not depart. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mic.2.7" data-parsed="Mic_2_7_0_0" data-passage="Mic 2.7" id="Mic.2.7"/><sup>7</sup>Shall it be said, O house of Jacob, Is the Spirit of Jehovah straitened? are these his doings? Do not my words do good to him that walketh uprightly? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mic.2.8" data-parsed="Mic_2_8_0_0" data-passage="Mic 2.8" id="Mic.2.8"/><sup>8</sup>But of late my people is risen up as an enemy: ye strip the robe from off the garment from them that pass by securely <i>as men</i> averse from war.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Mic.2.9" data-parsed="Mic_2_9_0_0" data-passage="Mic 2.9" id="Mic.2.9"/><sup>9</sup>The women of my people ye cast out from their pleasant houses; from their young children ye take away my glory for ever. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mic.2.10" data-parsed="Mic_2_10_0_0" data-passage="Mic 2.10" id="Mic.2.10"/><sup>10</sup>Arise ye, and depart; for this is not your resting-place; because of uncleanness that destroyeth, even with a grievous destruction. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mic.2.11" data-parsed="Mic_2_11_0_0" data-passage="Mic 2.11" id="Mic.2.11"/><sup>11</sup>If a man walking in a spirit of falsehood do lie, <i>saying</i>, I will prophesy unto thee of wine and of strong drink; he shall even be the prophet of this people. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mic.2.12" data-parsed="Mic_2_12_0_0" data-passage="Mic 2.12" id="Mic.2.12"/><sup>12</sup>I will surely assemble, O Jacob, all of thee; I will surely gather the remnant of Israel; I will put them together as the sheep of Bozrah, as a flock in the midst of their pasture; they shall make great noise by reason of <i>the multitude of</i> men. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mic.2.13" data-parsed="Mic_2_13_0_0" data-passage="Mic 2.13" id="Mic.2.13"/><sup>13</sup>The breaker is gone up before them: they have broken forth and passed on to the gate, and are gone out thereat; and their king is passed on before them, and Jehovah at the head of them.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>