<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Micah 3</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Micah 3</span></div><div data-next="Mic.4" data-prev="Mic.2" data-progress="75.43%" data-shorttitle="" id="Mic.3" title="Micah 3">
<h2 id="Mic.3-p0.1">3</h2>
<p id="Mic.3-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mic.3.1" data-parsed="Mic_3_1_0_0" data-passage="Mic 3.1" id="Mic.3.1"/><sup>1</sup>And I said, Hear, I pray you, ye heads of Jacob, and rulers of the house of Israel: is it not for you to know justice? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mic.3.2" data-parsed="Mic_3_2_0_0" data-passage="Mic 3.2" id="Mic.3.2"/><sup>2</sup>ye who hate the good, and love the evil; who pluck off their skin from off them, and their flesh from off their bones; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mic.3.3" data-parsed="Mic_3_3_0_0" data-passage="Mic 3.3" id="Mic.3.3"/><sup>3</sup>who also eat the flesh of my people, and flay their skin from off them, and break their bones, and chop them in pieces, as for the pot, and as flesh within the caldron. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mic.3.4" data-parsed="Mic_3_4_0_0" data-passage="Mic 3.4" id="Mic.3.4"/><sup>4</sup>Then shall they cry unto Jehovah, but he will not answer them; yea, he will hide his face from them at that time, according as they have wrought evil in their doings.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Mic.3.5" data-parsed="Mic_3_5_0_0" data-passage="Mic 3.5" id="Mic.3.5"/><sup>5</sup>Thus saith Jehovah concerning the prophets that make my people to err;
that bite with their teeth, and cry, Peace; and whoso putteth not into their mouths, they even prepare war against him: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mic.3.6" data-parsed="Mic_3_6_0_0" data-passage="Mic 3.6" id="Mic.3.6"/><sup>6</sup>Therefore it shall be night unto you, that ye shall have no vision; and it shall be dark unto you, that ye shall not divine; and the sun shall go down upon the prophets, and the day shall be black over them. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mic.3.7" data-parsed="Mic_3_7_0_0" data-passage="Mic 3.7" id="Mic.3.7"/><sup>7</sup>And the seers shall be put to shame, and the diviners confounded; yea, they shall all cover their lips; for there is no answer of God. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mic.3.8" data-parsed="Mic_3_8_0_0" data-passage="Mic 3.8" id="Mic.3.8"/><sup>8</sup>But as for me, I am full of power by the Spirit of Jehovah, and of judgment, and of might, to declare unto Jacob his transgression, and to Israel his sin. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mic.3.9" data-parsed="Mic_3_9_0_0" data-passage="Mic 3.9" id="Mic.3.9"/><sup>9</sup>Hear this, I pray you, ye heads of the house of Jacob, and rulers of the house of Israel, that abhor justice,
and pervert all equity. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mic.3.10" data-parsed="Mic_3_10_0_0" data-passage="Mic 3.10" id="Mic.3.10"/><sup>10</sup>They build up Zion with blood, and Jerusalem with iniquity. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mic.3.11" data-parsed="Mic_3_11_0_0" data-passage="Mic 3.11" id="Mic.3.11"/><sup>11</sup>The heads thereof judge for reward, and the priests thereof teach for hire, and the prophets thereof divine for money: yet they lean upon Jehovah, and say, Is not Jehovah in the midst of us? no evil shall come upon us. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mic.3.12" data-parsed="Mic_3_12_0_0" data-passage="Mic 3.12" id="Mic.3.12"/><sup>12</sup>Therefore shall Zion for your sake be plowed as a field,
and Jerusalem shall become heaps, and the mountain of the house as the high places of a forest.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>