<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Micah 6</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Micah 6</span></div><div data-next="Mic.7" data-prev="Mic.5" data-progress="75.58%" data-shorttitle="" id="Mic.6" title="Micah 6">
<h2 id="Mic.6-p0.1">6</h2>
<p id="Mic.6-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mic.6.1" data-parsed="Mic_6_1_0_0" data-passage="Mic 6.1" id="Mic.6.1"/><sup>1</sup>Hear ye now what Jehovah saith: Arise, contend thou before the mountains, and let the hills hear thy voice. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mic.6.2" data-parsed="Mic_6_2_0_0" data-passage="Mic 6.2" id="Mic.6.2"/><sup>2</sup>Hear, O ye mountains,
Jehovah's controversy, and ye enduring foundations of the earth; for Jehovah hath a controversy with his people, and he will contend with Israel. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mic.6.3" data-parsed="Mic_6_3_0_0" data-passage="Mic 6.3" id="Mic.6.3"/><sup>3</sup>O my people, what have I done unto thee? and wherein have I wearied thee?
testify against me. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mic.6.4" data-parsed="Mic_6_4_0_0" data-passage="Mic 6.4" id="Mic.6.4"/><sup>4</sup>For I brought thee up out of the land of Egypt, and redeemed thee out of the house of bondage; and I sent before thee Moses,
Aaron, and Miriam. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mic.6.5" data-parsed="Mic_6_5_0_0" data-passage="Mic 6.5" id="Mic.6.5"/><sup>5</sup>O my people, remember now what Balak king of Moab devised, and what Balaam the son of Beor answered him; <i>remember</i> from Shittim unto Gilgal, that ye may know the righteous acts of Jehovah.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Mic.6.6" data-parsed="Mic_6_6_0_0" data-passage="Mic 6.6" id="Mic.6.6"/><sup>6</sup>Wherewith shall I come before Jehovah, and bow myself before the high God? shall I come before him with burnt-offerings, with calves a year old?

<span data-osisref="Bible:Mic.6.7" data-parsed="Mic_6_7_0_0" data-passage="Mic 6.7" id="Mic.6.7"/><sup>7</sup>will Jehovah be pleased with thousands of rams, <i>or</i> with ten thousands of rivers of oil? shall I give my first-born for my transgression,
the fruit of my body for the sin of my soul? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mic.6.8" data-parsed="Mic_6_8_0_0" data-passage="Mic 6.8" id="Mic.6.8"/><sup>8</sup>He hath showed thee, O man,
what is good; and what doth Jehovah require of thee, but to do justly, and to love kindness, and to walk humbly with thy God? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mic.6.9" data-parsed="Mic_6_9_0_0" data-passage="Mic 6.9" id="Mic.6.9"/><sup>9</sup>The voice of Jehovah crieth unto the city, and <i>the man of</i> wisdom will see thy name: hear ye the rod, and who hath appointed it. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mic.6.10" data-parsed="Mic_6_10_0_0" data-passage="Mic 6.10" id="Mic.6.10"/><sup>10</sup>Are there yet treasures of wickedness in the house of the wicked, and a scant measure that is abominable? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mic.6.11" data-parsed="Mic_6_11_0_0" data-passage="Mic 6.11" id="Mic.6.11"/><sup>11</sup>Shall I be pure with wicked balances, and with a bag of deceitful weights? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mic.6.12" data-parsed="Mic_6_12_0_0" data-passage="Mic 6.12" id="Mic.6.12"/><sup>12</sup>For the rich men thereof are full of violence, and the inhabitants thereof have spoken lies, and their tongue is deceitful in their mouth. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mic.6.13" data-parsed="Mic_6_13_0_0" data-passage="Mic 6.13" id="Mic.6.13"/><sup>13</sup>Therefore I also have smitten thee with a grievous wound;
I have made thee desolate because of thy sins. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mic.6.14" data-parsed="Mic_6_14_0_0" data-passage="Mic 6.14" id="Mic.6.14"/><sup>14</sup>Thou shalt eat, but not be satisfied; and thy humiliation shall be in the midst of thee: and thou shalt put away, but shalt not save; and that which thou savest will I give up to the sword. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mic.6.15" data-parsed="Mic_6_15_0_0" data-passage="Mic 6.15" id="Mic.6.15"/><sup>15</sup>Thou shalt sow, but shalt not reap; thou shalt tread the olives, but shalt not anoint thee with oil; and the vintage, but shalt not drink the wine. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mic.6.16" data-parsed="Mic_6_16_0_0" data-passage="Mic 6.16" id="Mic.6.16"/><sup>16</sup>For the statutes of Omri are kept, and all the works of the house of Ahab, and ye walk in their counsels; that I may make thee a desolation, and the inhabitants thereof a hissing: and ye shall bear the reproach of my people.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>