<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Micah 7</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Micah 7</span></div><div data-next="Nah" data-prev="Mic.6" data-progress="75.64%" data-shorttitle="" id="Mic.7" title="Micah 7">
<h2 id="Mic.7-p0.1">7</h2>
<p id="Mic.7-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mic.7.1" data-parsed="Mic_7_1_0_0" data-passage="Mic 7.1" id="Mic.7.1"/><sup>1</sup>Woe is me! for I am as when they have gathered the summer fruits,
as the grape gleanings of the vintage: there is no cluster to eat; my soul desireth the first-ripe fig. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mic.7.2" data-parsed="Mic_7_2_0_0" data-passage="Mic 7.2" id="Mic.7.2"/><sup>2</sup>The godly man is perished out of the earth,
and there is none upright among men: they all lie in wait for blood; they hunt every man his brother with a net. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mic.7.3" data-parsed="Mic_7_3_0_0" data-passage="Mic 7.3" id="Mic.7.3"/><sup>3</sup>Their hands are upon that which is evil to do it diligently; the prince asketh, and the judge <i>is ready</i> for a reward; and the great man, he uttereth the evil desire of his soul: thus they weave it together. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mic.7.4" data-parsed="Mic_7_4_0_0" data-passage="Mic 7.4" id="Mic.7.4"/><sup>4</sup>The best of them is as a brier; the most upright is <i>worse</i> than a thorn hedge: the day of thy watchmen,
even thy visitation, is come; now shall be their perplexity. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mic.7.5" data-parsed="Mic_7_5_0_0" data-passage="Mic 7.5" id="Mic.7.5"/><sup>5</sup>Trust ye not in a neighbor; put ye not confidence in a friend; keep the doors of thy mouth from her that lieth in thy bosom. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mic.7.6" data-parsed="Mic_7_6_0_0" data-passage="Mic 7.6" id="Mic.7.6"/><sup>6</sup>For the son dishonoreth the father, the daughter riseth up against her mother, the daughter-in-law against her mother-in-law; a man's enemies are the men of his own house.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Mic.7.7" data-parsed="Mic_7_7_0_0" data-passage="Mic 7.7" id="Mic.7.7"/><sup>7</sup>But as for me, I will look unto Jehovah; I will wait for the God of my salvation: my God will hear me. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mic.7.8" data-parsed="Mic_7_8_0_0" data-passage="Mic 7.8" id="Mic.7.8"/><sup>8</sup>Rejoice not against me, O mine enemy:
when I fall, I shall arise; when I sit in darkness, Jehovah will be a light unto me. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mic.7.9" data-parsed="Mic_7_9_0_0" data-passage="Mic 7.9" id="Mic.7.9"/><sup>9</sup>I will bear the indignation of Jehovah, because I have sinned against him, until he plead my cause, and execute judgment for me: he will bring me forth to the light, <i>and</i> I shall behold his righteousness.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Mic.7.10" data-parsed="Mic_7_10_0_0" data-passage="Mic 7.10" id="Mic.7.10"/><sup>10</sup>Then mine enemy shall see it, and shame shall cover her who said unto me, Where is Jehovah thy God? Mine eyes shall see <i>my desire</i> upon her;
now shall she be trodden down as the mire of the streets. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mic.7.11" data-parsed="Mic_7_11_0_0" data-passage="Mic 7.11" id="Mic.7.11"/><sup>11</sup>A day for building thy walls! in that day shall the decree be far removed. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mic.7.12" data-parsed="Mic_7_12_0_0" data-passage="Mic 7.12" id="Mic.7.12"/><sup>12</sup>In that day shall they come unto thee from Assyria and the cities of Egypt, and from Egypt even to the River, and from sea to sea, and <i>from</i> mountain to mountain. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mic.7.13" data-parsed="Mic_7_13_0_0" data-passage="Mic 7.13" id="Mic.7.13"/><sup>13</sup>Yet shall the land be desolate because of them that dwell therein, for the fruit of their doings. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mic.7.14" data-parsed="Mic_7_14_0_0" data-passage="Mic 7.14" id="Mic.7.14"/><sup>14</sup>Feed thy people with thy rod,
the flock of thy heritage, which dwell solitarily, in the forest in the midst of Carmel: let them feed in Bashan and Gilead, as in the days of old.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Mic.7.15" data-parsed="Mic_7_15_0_0" data-passage="Mic 7.15" id="Mic.7.15"/><sup>15</sup>As in the days of thy coming forth out of the land of Egypt will I show unto them marvellous things. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mic.7.16" data-parsed="Mic_7_16_0_0" data-passage="Mic 7.16" id="Mic.7.16"/><sup>16</sup>The nations shall see and be ashamed of all their might; they shall lay their hand upon their mouth; their ears shall be deaf. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mic.7.17" data-parsed="Mic_7_17_0_0" data-passage="Mic 7.17" id="Mic.7.17"/><sup>17</sup>They shall lick the dust like a serpent; like crawling things of the earth they shall come trembling out of their close places; they shall come with fear unto Jehovah our God, and shall be afraid because of thee.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Mic.7.18" data-parsed="Mic_7_18_0_0" data-passage="Mic 7.18" id="Mic.7.18"/><sup>18</sup>Who is a God like unto thee, that pardoneth iniquity, and passeth over the transgression of the remnant of his heritage? he retaineth not his anger for ever, because he delighteth in lovingkindness. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mic.7.19" data-parsed="Mic_7_19_0_0" data-passage="Mic 7.19" id="Mic.7.19"/><sup>19</sup>He will again have compassion upon us; he will tread our iniquities under foot; and thou wilt cast all their sins into the depths of the sea. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Mic.7.20" data-parsed="Mic_7_20_0_0" data-passage="Mic 7.20" id="Mic.7.20"/><sup>20</sup>Thou wilt perform the truth to Jacob, <i>and</i> the lovingkindness to Abraham, which thou hast sworn unto our fathers from the days of old.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>