<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Nahum 2</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Nahum 2</span></div><div data-next="Nah.3" data-prev="Nah.1" data-progress="75.76%" data-shorttitle="" id="Nah.2" title="Nahum 2">
<h2 id="Nah.2-p0.1">2</h2>
<p id="Nah.2-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Nah.2.1" data-parsed="Nah_2_1_0_0" data-passage="Nah 2.1" id="Nah.2.1"/><sup>1</sup>He that dasheth in pieces is come up against thee: keep the fortress, watch the way, make thy loins strong, fortify thy power mightily.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Nah.2.2" data-parsed="Nah_2_2_0_0" data-passage="Nah 2.2" id="Nah.2.2"/><sup>2</sup>For Jehovah restoreth the excellency of Jacob, as the excellency of Israel; for the emptiers have emptied them out, and destroyed their vine-branches. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Nah.2.3" data-parsed="Nah_2_3_0_0" data-passage="Nah 2.3" id="Nah.2.3"/><sup>3</sup>The shield of his mighty men is made red, the valiant men are in scarlet: the chariots flash with steel in the day of his preparation,
and the cypress <i>spears</i> are brandished. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Nah.2.4" data-parsed="Nah_2_4_0_0" data-passage="Nah 2.4" id="Nah.2.4"/><sup>4</sup>The chariots rage in the streets; they rush to and fro in the broad ways: the appearance of them is like torches; they run like the lightnings. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Nah.2.5" data-parsed="Nah_2_5_0_0" data-passage="Nah 2.5" id="Nah.2.5"/><sup>5</sup>He remembereth his nobles:
they stumble in their march; they make haste to the wall thereof, and the mantelet is prepared. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Nah.2.6" data-parsed="Nah_2_6_0_0" data-passage="Nah 2.6" id="Nah.2.6"/><sup>6</sup>The gates of the rivers are opened, and the palace is dissolved. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Nah.2.7" data-parsed="Nah_2_7_0_0" data-passage="Nah 2.7" id="Nah.2.7"/><sup>7</sup>And it is decreed: she is uncovered, she is carried away;
and her handmaids moan as with the voice of doves, beating upon their breasts. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Nah.2.8" data-parsed="Nah_2_8_0_0" data-passage="Nah 2.8" id="Nah.2.8"/><sup>8</sup>But Nineveh hath been from of old like a pool of water: yet they flee away. Stand, stand, <i>they cry</i>; but none looketh back.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Nah.2.9" data-parsed="Nah_2_9_0_0" data-passage="Nah 2.9" id="Nah.2.9"/><sup>9</sup>Take ye the spoil of silver, take the spoil of gold; for there is no end of the store, the glory of all goodly furniture. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Nah.2.10" data-parsed="Nah_2_10_0_0" data-passage="Nah 2.10" id="Nah.2.10"/><sup>10</sup>She is empty, and void, and waste; and the heart melteth, and the knees smite together, and anguish is in all loins, and the faces of them all are waxed pale.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Nah.2.11" data-parsed="Nah_2_11_0_0" data-passage="Nah 2.11" id="Nah.2.11"/><sup>11</sup>Where is the den of the lions, and the feeding-place of the young lions, where the lion <i>and</i> the lioness walked, the lion's whelp, and none made them afraid? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Nah.2.12" data-parsed="Nah_2_12_0_0" data-passage="Nah 2.12" id="Nah.2.12"/><sup>12</sup>The lion did tear in pieces enough for his whelps, and strangled for his lionesses, and filled his caves with prey, and his dens with ravin. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Nah.2.13" data-parsed="Nah_2_13_0_0" data-passage="Nah 2.13" id="Nah.2.13"/><sup>13</sup>Behold, I am against thee, saith Jehovah of hosts,
and I will burn her chariots in the smoke, and the sword shall devour thy young lions; and I will cut off thy prey from the earth, and the voice of thy messengers shall no more be heard.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>