<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Nehemiah 12</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Nehemiah 12</span></div><div data-next="Neh.13" data-prev="Neh.11" data-progress="44.91%" data-shorttitle="" id="Neh.12" title="Nehemiah 12">
<h2 id="Neh.12-p0.1">12</h2>
<p id="Neh.12-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Neh.12.1" data-parsed="Neh_12_1_0_0" data-passage="Neh 12.1" id="Neh.12.1"/><sup>1</sup>Now these are the priests and the Levites that went up with Zerubbabel the son of Shealtiel, and Jeshua: Seraiah, Jeremiah, Ezra,

<span data-osisref="Bible:Neh.12.2" data-parsed="Neh_12_2_0_0" data-passage="Neh 12.2" id="Neh.12.2"/><sup>2</sup>Amariah, Malluch, Hattush, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Neh.12.3" data-parsed="Neh_12_3_0_0" data-passage="Neh 12.3" id="Neh.12.3"/><sup>3</sup>Shecaniah, Rehum, Meremoth, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Neh.12.4" data-parsed="Neh_12_4_0_0" data-passage="Neh 12.4" id="Neh.12.4"/><sup>4</sup>Iddo,
Ginnethoi, Abijah, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Neh.12.5" data-parsed="Neh_12_5_0_0" data-passage="Neh 12.5" id="Neh.12.5"/><sup>5</sup>Mijamin, Maadiah, Bilgah, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Neh.12.6" data-parsed="Neh_12_6_0_0" data-passage="Neh 12.6" id="Neh.12.6"/><sup>6</sup>Shemaiah, and Joiarib,
Jedaiah. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Neh.12.7" data-parsed="Neh_12_7_0_0" data-passage="Neh 12.7" id="Neh.12.7"/><sup>7</sup>Sallu, Amok, Hilkiah, Jedaiah. These were the chiefs of the priests and of their brethren in the days of Jeshua. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Neh.12.8" data-parsed="Neh_12_8_0_0" data-passage="Neh 12.8" id="Neh.12.8"/><sup>8</sup>Moreover the Levites: Jeshua, Binnui, Kadmiel, Sherebiah, Judah, <i>and</i> Mattaniah,
who was over the thanksgiving, he and his brethren. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Neh.12.9" data-parsed="Neh_12_9_0_0" data-passage="Neh 12.9" id="Neh.12.9"/><sup>9</sup>Also Bakbukiah and Unno, their brethren, were over against them according to their offices.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Neh.12.10" data-parsed="Neh_12_10_0_0" data-passage="Neh 12.10" id="Neh.12.10"/><sup>10</sup>And Jeshua begat Joiakim, and Joiakim begat Eliashib, and Eliashib begat Joiada, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Neh.12.11" data-parsed="Neh_12_11_0_0" data-passage="Neh 12.11" id="Neh.12.11"/><sup>11</sup>and Joiada begat Jonathan, and Jonathan begat Jaddua.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Neh.12.12" data-parsed="Neh_12_12_0_0" data-passage="Neh 12.12" id="Neh.12.12"/><sup>12</sup>And in the days of Joiakim were priests, heads of fathers'
<i>houses</i>: of Seraiah, Meraiah; of Jeremiah, Hananiah; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Neh.12.13" data-parsed="Neh_12_13_0_0" data-passage="Neh 12.13" id="Neh.12.13"/><sup>13</sup>of Ezra,
Meshullam; of Amariah, Jehohanan; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Neh.12.14" data-parsed="Neh_12_14_0_0" data-passage="Neh 12.14" id="Neh.12.14"/><sup>14</sup>of Malluchi, Jonathan; of Shebaniah,
Joseph; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Neh.12.15" data-parsed="Neh_12_15_0_0" data-passage="Neh 12.15" id="Neh.12.15"/><sup>15</sup>of Harim, Adna; of Meraioth, Helkai; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Neh.12.16" data-parsed="Neh_12_16_0_0" data-passage="Neh 12.16" id="Neh.12.16"/><sup>16</sup>of Iddo, Zechariah;
of Ginnethon, Meshullam; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Neh.12.17" data-parsed="Neh_12_17_0_0" data-passage="Neh 12.17" id="Neh.12.17"/><sup>17</sup>of Abijah, Zichri; of Miniamin, of Moadiah,
Piltai; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Neh.12.18" data-parsed="Neh_12_18_0_0" data-passage="Neh 12.18" id="Neh.12.18"/><sup>18</sup>of Bilgah, Shammua; of Shemaiah, Jehonathan; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Neh.12.19" data-parsed="Neh_12_19_0_0" data-passage="Neh 12.19" id="Neh.12.19"/><sup>19</sup>and of Joiarib, Mattenai; of Jedaiah, Uzzi; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Neh.12.20" data-parsed="Neh_12_20_0_0" data-passage="Neh 12.20" id="Neh.12.20"/><sup>20</sup>of Sallai, Kallai; of Amok, Eber;

<span data-osisref="Bible:Neh.12.21" data-parsed="Neh_12_21_0_0" data-passage="Neh 12.21" id="Neh.12.21"/><sup>21</sup>of Hilkiah, Hashabiah; of Jedaiah, Nethanel. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Neh.12.22" data-parsed="Neh_12_22_0_0" data-passage="Neh 12.22" id="Neh.12.22"/><sup>22</sup>As for the Levites,
in the days of Eliashib, Joiada, and Johanan, and Jaddua, there were recorded the heads of fathers' <i>houses</i>; also the priests, in the reign of Darius the Persian. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Neh.12.23" data-parsed="Neh_12_23_0_0" data-passage="Neh 12.23" id="Neh.12.23"/><sup>23</sup>The sons of Levi, heads of fathers' <i>houses</i>,
were written in the book of the chronicles, even until the days of Johanan the son of Eliashib. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Neh.12.24" data-parsed="Neh_12_24_0_0" data-passage="Neh 12.24" id="Neh.12.24"/><sup>24</sup>And the chiefs of the Levites: Hashabiah,
Sherebiah, and Jeshua the son of Kadmiel, with their brethren over against them, to praise and give thanks, according to the commandment of David the man of God, watch next to watch. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Neh.12.25" data-parsed="Neh_12_25_0_0" data-passage="Neh 12.25" id="Neh.12.25"/><sup>25</sup>Mattaniah, and Bakbukiah, Obadiah,
Meshullam, Talmon, Akkub, were porters keeping the watch at the store-houses of the gates. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Neh.12.26" data-parsed="Neh_12_26_0_0" data-passage="Neh 12.26" id="Neh.12.26"/><sup>26</sup>These were in the days of Joiakim the son of Jeshua, the son of Jozadak, and in the days of Nehemiah the governor, and of Ezra the priest the scribe. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Neh.12.27" data-parsed="Neh_12_27_0_0" data-passage="Neh 12.27" id="Neh.12.27"/><sup>27</sup>And at the dedication of the wall of Jerusalem they sought the Levites out of all their places, to bring them to Jerusalem, to keep the dedication with gladness, both with thanksgivings, and with singing,
with cymbals, psalteries, and with harps. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Neh.12.28" data-parsed="Neh_12_28_0_0" data-passage="Neh 12.28" id="Neh.12.28"/><sup>28</sup>And the sons of the singers gathered themselves together, both out of the plain round about Jerusalem,
and from the villages of the Netophathites; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Neh.12.29" data-parsed="Neh_12_29_0_0" data-passage="Neh 12.29" id="Neh.12.29"/><sup>29</sup>also from Beth-gilgal, and out of the fields of Geba and Azmaveth: for the singers had builded them villages round about Jerusalem. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Neh.12.30" data-parsed="Neh_12_30_0_0" data-passage="Neh 12.30" id="Neh.12.30"/><sup>30</sup>And the priests and the Levites purified themselves; and they purified the people, and the gates, and the wall. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Neh.12.31" data-parsed="Neh_12_31_0_0" data-passage="Neh 12.31" id="Neh.12.31"/><sup>31</sup>Then I brought up the princes of Judah upon the wall, and appointed two great companies that gave thanks and went in procession;
<i>whereof one went</i> on the right hand upon the wall toward the dung gate: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Neh.12.32" data-parsed="Neh_12_32_0_0" data-passage="Neh 12.32" id="Neh.12.32"/><sup>32</sup>and after them went Hoshaiah, and half of the princes of Judah,

<span data-osisref="Bible:Neh.12.33" data-parsed="Neh_12_33_0_0" data-passage="Neh 12.33" id="Neh.12.33"/><sup>33</sup>and Azariah, Ezra, and Meshullam, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Neh.12.34" data-parsed="Neh_12_34_0_0" data-passage="Neh 12.34" id="Neh.12.34"/><sup>34</sup>Judah, and Benjamin, and Shemaiah, and Jeremiah, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Neh.12.35" data-parsed="Neh_12_35_0_0" data-passage="Neh 12.35" id="Neh.12.35"/><sup>35</sup>and certain of the priests' sons with trumpets:
Zechariah the son of Jonathan, the son of Shemaiah, the son of Mattaniah, the son of Micaiah, the son of Zaccur, the son of Asaph; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Neh.12.36" data-parsed="Neh_12_36_0_0" data-passage="Neh 12.36" id="Neh.12.36"/><sup>36</sup>and his brethren,
Shemaiah, and Azarel, Milalai, Gilalai, Maai, Nethanel, and Judah, Hanani,
with the musical instruments of David the man of God; and Ezra the scribe was before them. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Neh.12.37" data-parsed="Neh_12_37_0_0" data-passage="Neh 12.37" id="Neh.12.37"/><sup>37</sup>And by the fountain gate, and straight before them, they went up by the stairs of the city of David, at the ascent of the wall, above the house of David, even unto the water gate eastward. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Neh.12.38" data-parsed="Neh_12_38_0_0" data-passage="Neh 12.38" id="Neh.12.38"/><sup>38</sup>And the other company of them that gave thanks went to meet them, and I after them, with the half of the people, upon the wall, above the tower of the furnaces, even unto the broad wall, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Neh.12.39" data-parsed="Neh_12_39_0_0" data-passage="Neh 12.39" id="Neh.12.39"/><sup>39</sup>and above the gate of Ephraim, and by the old gate, and by the fish gate, and the tower of Hananel, and the tower of Hammeah, even unto the sheep gate: and they stood still in the gate of the guard. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Neh.12.40" data-parsed="Neh_12_40_0_0" data-passage="Neh 12.40" id="Neh.12.40"/><sup>40</sup>So stood the two companies of them that gave thanks in the house of God, and I, and the half of the rulers with me; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Neh.12.41" data-parsed="Neh_12_41_0_0" data-passage="Neh 12.41" id="Neh.12.41"/><sup>41</sup>and the priests,
Eliakim, Maaseiah, Miniamin, Micaiah, Elioenai, Zechariah, and Hananiah, with trumpets; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Neh.12.42" data-parsed="Neh_12_42_0_0" data-passage="Neh 12.42" id="Neh.12.42"/><sup>42</sup>and Maaseiah, and Shemaiah, and Eleazar, and Uzzi, and Jehohanan, and Malchijah, and Elam, and Ezer. And the singers sang loud, with Jezrahiah their overseer. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Neh.12.43" data-parsed="Neh_12_43_0_0" data-passage="Neh 12.43" id="Neh.12.43"/><sup>43</sup>And they offered great sacrifices that day,
and rejoiced; for God had made them rejoice with great joy; and the women also and the children rejoiced: so that the joy of Jerusalem was heard even afar off. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Neh.12.44" data-parsed="Neh_12_44_0_0" data-passage="Neh 12.44" id="Neh.12.44"/><sup>44</sup>And on that day were men appointed over the chambers for the treasures, for the heave-offerings, for the first-fruits, and for the tithes,
to gather into them, according to the fields of the cities, the portions appointed by the law for the priests and Levites: for Judah rejoiced for the priests and for the Levites that waited. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Neh.12.45" data-parsed="Neh_12_45_0_0" data-passage="Neh 12.45" id="Neh.12.45"/><sup>45</sup>And they kept the charge of their God, and the charge of the purification, and <i>so did</i> the singers and the porters, according to the commandment of David, and of Solomon his son. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Neh.12.46" data-parsed="Neh_12_46_0_0" data-passage="Neh 12.46" id="Neh.12.46"/><sup>46</sup>For in the days of David and Asaph of old there was a chief of the singers, and songs of praise and thanksgiving unto God. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Neh.12.47" data-parsed="Neh_12_47_0_0" data-passage="Neh 12.47" id="Neh.12.47"/><sup>47</sup>And all Israel in the days of Zerubbabel, and in the days of Nehemiah, gave the portions of the singers and the porters, as every day required: and they set apart <i>that which was</i> for the Levites; and the Levites set apart <i>that which was</i> for the sons of Aaron.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>