<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Nehemiah 11</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Nehemiah 11</span></div><div data-next="Neh.12" data-prev="Neh.10" data-progress="44.81%" data-shorttitle="" id="Neh.11" title="Nehemiah 11">
<h2 id="Neh.11-p0.1">11</h2>
<p id="Neh.11-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Neh.11.1" data-parsed="Neh_11_1_0_0" data-passage="Neh 11.1" id="Neh.11.1"/><sup>1</sup>And the princes of the people dwelt in Jerusalem: the rest of the people also cast lots, to bring one of ten to dwell in Jerusalem the holy city, and nine parts in the <i>other</i> cities. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Neh.11.2" data-parsed="Neh_11_2_0_0" data-passage="Neh 11.2" id="Neh.11.2"/><sup>2</sup>And the people blessed all the men that willingly offered themselves to dwell in Jerusalem. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Neh.11.3" data-parsed="Neh_11_3_0_0" data-passage="Neh 11.3" id="Neh.11.3"/><sup>3</sup>Now these are the chiefs of the province that dwelt in Jerusalem: but in the cities of Judah dwelt every one in his possession in their cities, <i>to wit</i>, Israel, the priests, and the Levites, and the Nethinim, and the children of Solomon's servants. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Neh.11.4" data-parsed="Neh_11_4_0_0" data-passage="Neh 11.4" id="Neh.11.4"/><sup>4</sup>And in Jerusalem dwelt certain of the children of Judah, and of the children of Benjamin. Of the children of Judah:
Athaiah the son of Uzziah, the son of Zechariah, the son of Amariah, the son of Shephatiah, the son of Mahalalel, of the children of Perez; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Neh.11.5" data-parsed="Neh_11_5_0_0" data-passage="Neh 11.5" id="Neh.11.5"/><sup>5</sup>and Maaseiah the son of Baruch, the son of Colhozeh, the son of Hazaiah, the son of Adaiah, the son of Joiarib, the son of Zechariah, the son of the Shilonite. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Neh.11.6" data-parsed="Neh_11_6_0_0" data-passage="Neh 11.6" id="Neh.11.6"/><sup>6</sup>All the sons of Perez that dwelt in Jerusalem were four hundred threescore and eight valiant men. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Neh.11.7" data-parsed="Neh_11_7_0_0" data-passage="Neh 11.7" id="Neh.11.7"/><sup>7</sup>And these are the sons of Benjamin: Sallu the son of Meshullam, the son of Joed, the son of Pedaiah,
the son of Kolaiah, the son of Maaseiah, the son of Ithiel, the son of Jeshaiah. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Neh.11.8" data-parsed="Neh_11_8_0_0" data-passage="Neh 11.8" id="Neh.11.8"/><sup>8</sup>And after him Gabbai, Sallai, nine hundred twenty and eight.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Neh.11.9" data-parsed="Neh_11_9_0_0" data-passage="Neh 11.9" id="Neh.11.9"/><sup>9</sup>And Joel the son of Zichri was their overseer; and Judah the son of Hassenuah was second over the city. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Neh.11.10" data-parsed="Neh_11_10_0_0" data-passage="Neh 11.10" id="Neh.11.10"/><sup>10</sup>Of the priests: Jedaiah the son of Joiarib, Jachin, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Neh.11.11" data-parsed="Neh_11_11_0_0" data-passage="Neh 11.11" id="Neh.11.11"/><sup>11</sup>Seraiah the son of Hilkiah, the son of Meshullam, the son of Zadok, the son of Meraioth, the son of Ahitub, the ruler of the house of God, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Neh.11.12" data-parsed="Neh_11_12_0_0" data-passage="Neh 11.12" id="Neh.11.12"/><sup>12</sup>and their brethren that did the work of the house, eight hundred twenty and two; and Adaiah the son of Jeroham, the son of Pelaliah,
the son of Amzi, the son of Zechariah, the son of Pashhur, the son of Malchijah, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Neh.11.13" data-parsed="Neh_11_13_0_0" data-passage="Neh 11.13" id="Neh.11.13"/><sup>13</sup>and his brethren, chiefs of fathers' <i>houses</i>, two hundred forty and two; and Amashsai the son of Azarel, the son of Ahzai, the son of Meshillemoth, the son of Immer, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Neh.11.14" data-parsed="Neh_11_14_0_0" data-passage="Neh 11.14" id="Neh.11.14"/><sup>14</sup>and their brethren, mighty men of valor, a hundred twenty and eight; and their overseer was Zabdiel, the son of Haggedolim. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Neh.11.15" data-parsed="Neh_11_15_0_0" data-passage="Neh 11.15" id="Neh.11.15"/><sup>15</sup>And of the Levites: Shemaiah the son of Hasshub, the son of Azrikam, the son of Hashabiah, the son of Bunni; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Neh.11.16" data-parsed="Neh_11_16_0_0" data-passage="Neh 11.16" id="Neh.11.16"/><sup>16</sup>and Shabbethai and Jozabad, of the chiefs of the Levites, who had the oversight of the outward business of the house of God; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Neh.11.17" data-parsed="Neh_11_17_0_0" data-passage="Neh 11.17" id="Neh.11.17"/><sup>17</sup>and Mattaniah the son of Mica, the son of Zabdi, the son of Asaph, who was the chief to begin the thanksgiving in prayer, and Bakbukiah, the second among his brethren; and Abda the son of Shammua, the son of Galal, the son of Jeduthun. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Neh.11.18" data-parsed="Neh_11_18_0_0" data-passage="Neh 11.18" id="Neh.11.18"/><sup>18</sup>All the Levites in the holy city were two hundred fourscore and four. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Neh.11.19" data-parsed="Neh_11_19_0_0" data-passage="Neh 11.19" id="Neh.11.19"/><sup>19</sup>Moreover the porters,
Akkub, Talmon, and their brethren, that kept watch at the gates, were a hundred seventy and two. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Neh.11.20" data-parsed="Neh_11_20_0_0" data-passage="Neh 11.20" id="Neh.11.20"/><sup>20</sup>And the residue of Israel, of the priests, the Levites, were in all the cities of Judah, every one in his inheritance.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Neh.11.21" data-parsed="Neh_11_21_0_0" data-passage="Neh 11.21" id="Neh.11.21"/><sup>21</sup>But the Nethinim dwelt in Ophel: and Ziha and Gishpa were over the Nethinim. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Neh.11.22" data-parsed="Neh_11_22_0_0" data-passage="Neh 11.22" id="Neh.11.22"/><sup>22</sup>The overseer also of the Levites at Jerusalem was Uzzi the son of Bani, the son of Hashabiah, the son of Mattaniah, the son of Mica, of the sons of Asaph, the singers, over the business of the house of God.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Neh.11.23" data-parsed="Neh_11_23_0_0" data-passage="Neh 11.23" id="Neh.11.23"/><sup>23</sup>For there was a commandment from the king concerning them, and a settled provision for the singers, as every day required. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Neh.11.24" data-parsed="Neh_11_24_0_0" data-passage="Neh 11.24" id="Neh.11.24"/><sup>24</sup>And Pethahiah the son of Meshezabel, of the children of Zerah the son of Judah, was at the king's hand in all matters concerning the people. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Neh.11.25" data-parsed="Neh_11_25_0_0" data-passage="Neh 11.25" id="Neh.11.25"/><sup>25</sup>And as for the villages, with their fields, some of the children of Judah dwelt in Kiriath-arba and the towns thereof, and in Dibon and the towns thereof, and in Jekabzeel and the villages thereof, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Neh.11.26" data-parsed="Neh_11_26_0_0" data-passage="Neh 11.26" id="Neh.11.26"/><sup>26</sup>and in Jeshua, and in Moladah,
and Beth-pelet, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Neh.11.27" data-parsed="Neh_11_27_0_0" data-passage="Neh 11.27" id="Neh.11.27"/><sup>27</sup>and in Hazar-shual, and in Beer-sheba and the towns thereof, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Neh.11.28" data-parsed="Neh_11_28_0_0" data-passage="Neh 11.28" id="Neh.11.28"/><sup>28</sup>and in Ziklag, and in Meconah and in the towns thereof,

<span data-osisref="Bible:Neh.11.29" data-parsed="Neh_11_29_0_0" data-passage="Neh 11.29" id="Neh.11.29"/><sup>29</sup>and in En-rimmon, and in Zorah, and in Jarmuth, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Neh.11.30" data-parsed="Neh_11_30_0_0" data-passage="Neh 11.30" id="Neh.11.30"/><sup>30</sup>Zanoah, Adullam,
and their villages, Lachish and the fields thereof, Azekah and the towns thereof. So they encamped from Beer-sheba unto the valley of Hinnom.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Neh.11.31" data-parsed="Neh_11_31_0_0" data-passage="Neh 11.31" id="Neh.11.31"/><sup>31</sup>The children of Benjamin also <i>dwelt</i> from Geba <i>onward</i>,
at Michmash and Aija, and at Beth-el and the towns thereof, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Neh.11.32" data-parsed="Neh_11_32_0_0" data-passage="Neh 11.32" id="Neh.11.32"/><sup>32</sup>at Anathoth, Nob, Ananiah, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Neh.11.33" data-parsed="Neh_11_33_0_0" data-passage="Neh 11.33" id="Neh.11.33"/><sup>33</sup>Hazor, Ramah, Gittaim, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Neh.11.34" data-parsed="Neh_11_34_0_0" data-passage="Neh 11.34" id="Neh.11.34"/><sup>34</sup>Hadid, Zeboim,
Neballat, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Neh.11.35" data-parsed="Neh_11_35_0_0" data-passage="Neh 11.35" id="Neh.11.35"/><sup>35</sup>Lod, and Ono, the valley of craftsmen. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Neh.11.36" data-parsed="Neh_11_36_0_0" data-passage="Neh 11.36" id="Neh.11.36"/><sup>36</sup>And of the Levites, certain courses in Judah <i>were joined</i> to Benjamin.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>