<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Nehemiah 6</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Nehemiah 6</span></div><div data-next="Neh.7" data-prev="Neh.5" data-progress="44.22%" data-shorttitle="" id="Neh.6" title="Nehemiah 6">
<h2 id="Neh.6-p0.1">6</h2>
<p id="Neh.6-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Neh.6.1" data-parsed="Neh_6_1_0_0" data-passage="Neh 6.1" id="Neh.6.1"/><sup>1</sup>Now it came to pass, when it was reported to Sanballat and Tobiah,
and to Geshem the Arabian, and unto the rest of our enemies, that I had builded the wall, and that there was no breach left therein; (though even unto that time I had not set up the doors in the gates;) 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Neh.6.2" data-parsed="Neh_6_2_0_0" data-passage="Neh 6.2" id="Neh.6.2"/><sup>2</sup>that Sanballat and Geshem sent unto me, saying, Come, let us meet together in <i>one of</i>
the villages in the plain of Ono. But they thought to do me mischief.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Neh.6.3" data-parsed="Neh_6_3_0_0" data-passage="Neh 6.3" id="Neh.6.3"/><sup>3</sup>And I sent messengers unto them, saying, I am doing a great work, so that I cannot come down: why should the work cease, whilst I leave it, and come down to you? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Neh.6.4" data-parsed="Neh_6_4_0_0" data-passage="Neh 6.4" id="Neh.6.4"/><sup>4</sup>And they sent unto me four times after this sort; and I answered them after the same manner. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Neh.6.5" data-parsed="Neh_6_5_0_0" data-passage="Neh 6.5" id="Neh.6.5"/><sup>5</sup>Then sent Sanballat his servant unto me in like manner the fifth time with an open letter in his hand,

<span data-osisref="Bible:Neh.6.6" data-parsed="Neh_6_6_0_0" data-passage="Neh 6.6" id="Neh.6.6"/><sup>6</sup>wherein was written, It is reported among the nations, and Gashmu saith it, that thou and the Jews think to rebel; for which cause thou art building the wall: and thou wouldest be their king, according to these words. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Neh.6.7" data-parsed="Neh_6_7_0_0" data-passage="Neh 6.7" id="Neh.6.7"/><sup>7</sup>And thou hast also appointed prophets to preach of thee at Jerusalem, saying,
There is a king in Judah: and now shall it be reported to the king according to these words. Come now therefore, and let us take counsel together.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Neh.6.8" data-parsed="Neh_6_8_0_0" data-passage="Neh 6.8" id="Neh.6.8"/><sup>8</sup>Then I sent unto him, saying, There are no such things done as thou sayest, but thou feignest them out of thine own heart. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Neh.6.9" data-parsed="Neh_6_9_0_0" data-passage="Neh 6.9" id="Neh.6.9"/><sup>9</sup>For they all would have made us afraid, saying, Their hands shall be weakened from the work, that it be not done. But now, <i>O God</i>, strengthen thou my hands.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Neh.6.10" data-parsed="Neh_6_10_0_0" data-passage="Neh 6.10" id="Neh.6.10"/><sup>10</sup>And I went unto the house of Shemaiah the son of Delaiah the son of Mehetabel, who was shut up; and he said, Let us meet together in the house of God, within the temple, and let us shut the doors of the temple: for they will come to slay thee; yea, in the night will they come to slay thee.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Neh.6.11" data-parsed="Neh_6_11_0_0" data-passage="Neh 6.11" id="Neh.6.11"/><sup>11</sup>And I said, Should such a man as I flee? and who is there, that, being such as I, would go into the temple to save his life? I will not go in.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Neh.6.12" data-parsed="Neh_6_12_0_0" data-passage="Neh 6.12" id="Neh.6.12"/><sup>12</sup>And I discerned, and, lo, God had not sent him; but he pronounced this prophecy against me: and Tobiah and Sanballat had hired him. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Neh.6.13" data-parsed="Neh_6_13_0_0" data-passage="Neh 6.13" id="Neh.6.13"/><sup>13</sup>For this cause was he hired, that I should be afraid, and do so, and sin, and that they might have matter for an evil report, that they might reproach me.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Neh.6.14" data-parsed="Neh_6_14_0_0" data-passage="Neh 6.14" id="Neh.6.14"/><sup>14</sup>Remember, O my God, Tobiah and Sanballat according to these their works, and also the prophetess Noadiah, and the rest of the prophets, that would have put me in fear. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Neh.6.15" data-parsed="Neh_6_15_0_0" data-passage="Neh 6.15" id="Neh.6.15"/><sup>15</sup>So the wall was finished in the twenty and fifth <i>day</i> of <i>the month</i> Elul, in fifty and two days. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Neh.6.16" data-parsed="Neh_6_16_0_0" data-passage="Neh 6.16" id="Neh.6.16"/><sup>16</sup>And it came to pass, when all our enemies heard <i>thereof</i>, that all the nations that were about us feared, and were much cast down in their own eyes;
for they perceived that this work was wrought of our God. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Neh.6.17" data-parsed="Neh_6_17_0_0" data-passage="Neh 6.17" id="Neh.6.17"/><sup>17</sup>Moreover in those days the nobles of Judah sent many letters unto Tobiah, and <i>the letters</i> of Tobiah came unto them. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Neh.6.18" data-parsed="Neh_6_18_0_0" data-passage="Neh 6.18" id="Neh.6.18"/><sup>18</sup>For there were many in Judah sworn unto him, because he was the son-in-law of Shecaniah the son of Arah;
and his son Jehohanan had taken the daughter of Meshullam the son of Berechiah to wife. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Neh.6.19" data-parsed="Neh_6_19_0_0" data-passage="Neh 6.19" id="Neh.6.19"/><sup>19</sup>Also they spake of his good deeds before me, and reported my words to him. <i>And</i> Tobiah sent letters to put me in fear.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>