<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Nehemiah 7</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Nehemiah 7</span></div><div data-next="Neh.8" data-prev="Neh.6" data-progress="44.29%" data-shorttitle="" id="Neh.7" title="Nehemiah 7">
<h2 id="Neh.7-p0.1">7</h2>
<p id="Neh.7-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Neh.7.1" data-parsed="Neh_7_1_0_0" data-passage="Neh 7.1" id="Neh.7.1"/><sup>1</sup>Now it came to pass, when the wall was built, and I had set up the doors, and the porters and the singers and the Levites were appointed,

<span data-osisref="Bible:Neh.7.2" data-parsed="Neh_7_2_0_0" data-passage="Neh 7.2" id="Neh.7.2"/><sup>2</sup>that I gave my brother Hanani, and Hananiah the governor of the castle,
charge over Jerusalem; for he was a faithful man, and feared God above many.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Neh.7.3" data-parsed="Neh_7_3_0_0" data-passage="Neh 7.3" id="Neh.7.3"/><sup>3</sup>And I said unto them, Let not the gates of Jerusalem be opened until the sun be hot; and while they stand <i>on guard</i>, let them shut the doors,
and bar ye them: and appoint watches of the inhabitants of Jerusalem, every one in his watch, and every one <i>to be</i> over against his house.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Neh.7.4" data-parsed="Neh_7_4_0_0" data-passage="Neh 7.4" id="Neh.7.4"/><sup>4</sup>Now the city was wide and large; but the people were few therein, and the houses were not builded. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Neh.7.5" data-parsed="Neh_7_5_0_0" data-passage="Neh 7.5" id="Neh.7.5"/><sup>5</sup>And my God put into my heart to gather together the nobles, and the rulers, and the people, that they might be reckoned by genealogy. And I found the book of the genealogy of them that came up at the first, and I found written therein: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Neh.7.6" data-parsed="Neh_7_6_0_0" data-passage="Neh 7.6" id="Neh.7.6"/><sup>6</sup>These are the children of the province, that went up out of the captivity of those that had been carried away, whom Nebuchadnezzar the king of Babylon had carried away,
and that returned unto Jerusalem and to Judah, every one unto his city;

<span data-osisref="Bible:Neh.7.7" data-parsed="Neh_7_7_0_0" data-passage="Neh 7.7" id="Neh.7.7"/><sup>7</sup>who came with Zerubbabel, Jeshua, Nehemiah, Azariah, Raamiah, Nahamani,
Mordecai, Bilshan, Mispereth, Bigvai, Nehum, Baanah. The number of the men of the people of Israel: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Neh.7.8" data-parsed="Neh_7_8_0_0" data-passage="Neh 7.8" id="Neh.7.8"/><sup>8</sup>The children of Parosh, two thousand a hundred and seventy and two. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Neh.7.9" data-parsed="Neh_7_9_0_0" data-passage="Neh 7.9" id="Neh.7.9"/><sup>9</sup>The children of Shephatiah, three hundred seventy and two. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Neh.7.10" data-parsed="Neh_7_10_0_0" data-passage="Neh 7.10" id="Neh.7.10"/><sup>10</sup>The children of Arah, six hundred fifty and two. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Neh.7.11" data-parsed="Neh_7_11_0_0" data-passage="Neh 7.11" id="Neh.7.11"/><sup>11</sup>The children of Pahath-moab, of the children of Jeshua and Joab, two thousand and eight hundred <i>and</i> eighteen. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Neh.7.12" data-parsed="Neh_7_12_0_0" data-passage="Neh 7.12" id="Neh.7.12"/><sup>12</sup>The children of Elam, a thousand two hundred fifty and four. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Neh.7.13" data-parsed="Neh_7_13_0_0" data-passage="Neh 7.13" id="Neh.7.13"/><sup>13</sup>The children of Zattu, eight hundred forty and five. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Neh.7.14" data-parsed="Neh_7_14_0_0" data-passage="Neh 7.14" id="Neh.7.14"/><sup>14</sup>The children of Zaccai, seven hundred and threescore.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Neh.7.15" data-parsed="Neh_7_15_0_0" data-passage="Neh 7.15" id="Neh.7.15"/><sup>15</sup>The children of Binnui, six hundred forty and eight. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Neh.7.16" data-parsed="Neh_7_16_0_0" data-passage="Neh 7.16" id="Neh.7.16"/><sup>16</sup>The children of Bebai, six hundred twenty and eight. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Neh.7.17" data-parsed="Neh_7_17_0_0" data-passage="Neh 7.17" id="Neh.7.17"/><sup>17</sup>The children of Azgad, two thousand three hundred twenty and two. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Neh.7.18" data-parsed="Neh_7_18_0_0" data-passage="Neh 7.18" id="Neh.7.18"/><sup>18</sup>The children of Adonikam, six hundred threescore and seven. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Neh.7.19" data-parsed="Neh_7_19_0_0" data-passage="Neh 7.19" id="Neh.7.19"/><sup>19</sup>The children of Bigvai, two thousand threescore and seven. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Neh.7.20" data-parsed="Neh_7_20_0_0" data-passage="Neh 7.20" id="Neh.7.20"/><sup>20</sup>The children of Adin, six hundred fifty and five.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Neh.7.21" data-parsed="Neh_7_21_0_0" data-passage="Neh 7.21" id="Neh.7.21"/><sup>21</sup>The children of Ater, of Hezekiah, ninety and eight. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Neh.7.22" data-parsed="Neh_7_22_0_0" data-passage="Neh 7.22" id="Neh.7.22"/><sup>22</sup>The children of Hashum, three hundred twenty and eight. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Neh.7.23" data-parsed="Neh_7_23_0_0" data-passage="Neh 7.23" id="Neh.7.23"/><sup>23</sup>The children of Bezai, three hundred twenty and four. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Neh.7.24" data-parsed="Neh_7_24_0_0" data-passage="Neh 7.24" id="Neh.7.24"/><sup>24</sup>The children of Hariph, a hundred and twelve.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Neh.7.25" data-parsed="Neh_7_25_0_0" data-passage="Neh 7.25" id="Neh.7.25"/><sup>25</sup>The children of Gibeon, ninety and five. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Neh.7.26" data-parsed="Neh_7_26_0_0" data-passage="Neh 7.26" id="Neh.7.26"/><sup>26</sup>The men of Bethlehem and Netophah, a hundred fourscore and eight. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Neh.7.27" data-parsed="Neh_7_27_0_0" data-passage="Neh 7.27" id="Neh.7.27"/><sup>27</sup>The men of Anathoth, a hundred twenty and eight. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Neh.7.28" data-parsed="Neh_7_28_0_0" data-passage="Neh 7.28" id="Neh.7.28"/><sup>28</sup>The men of Beth-azmaveth, forty and two. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Neh.7.29" data-parsed="Neh_7_29_0_0" data-passage="Neh 7.29" id="Neh.7.29"/><sup>29</sup>The men of Kiriath-jearim, Chephirah, and Beeroth, seven hundred forty and three.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Neh.7.30" data-parsed="Neh_7_30_0_0" data-passage="Neh 7.30" id="Neh.7.30"/><sup>30</sup>The men of Ramah and Geba, six hundred twenty and one. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Neh.7.31" data-parsed="Neh_7_31_0_0" data-passage="Neh 7.31" id="Neh.7.31"/><sup>31</sup>The men of Michmas, a hundred and twenty and two. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Neh.7.32" data-parsed="Neh_7_32_0_0" data-passage="Neh 7.32" id="Neh.7.32"/><sup>32</sup>The men of Beth-el and Ai, a hundred twenty and three. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Neh.7.33" data-parsed="Neh_7_33_0_0" data-passage="Neh 7.33" id="Neh.7.33"/><sup>33</sup>The men of the other Nebo, fifty and two.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Neh.7.34" data-parsed="Neh_7_34_0_0" data-passage="Neh 7.34" id="Neh.7.34"/><sup>34</sup>The children of the other Elam, a thousand two hundred fifty and four.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Neh.7.35" data-parsed="Neh_7_35_0_0" data-passage="Neh 7.35" id="Neh.7.35"/><sup>35</sup>The children of Harim, three hundred and twenty. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Neh.7.36" data-parsed="Neh_7_36_0_0" data-passage="Neh 7.36" id="Neh.7.36"/><sup>36</sup>The children of Jericho, three hundred forty and five. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Neh.7.37" data-parsed="Neh_7_37_0_0" data-passage="Neh 7.37" id="Neh.7.37"/><sup>37</sup>The children of Lod, Hadid, and Ono, seven hundred twenty and one. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Neh.7.38" data-parsed="Neh_7_38_0_0" data-passage="Neh 7.38" id="Neh.7.38"/><sup>38</sup>The children of Senaah, three thousand nine hundred and thirty. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Neh.7.39" data-parsed="Neh_7_39_0_0" data-passage="Neh 7.39" id="Neh.7.39"/><sup>39</sup>The priests: The children of Jedaiah,
of the house of Jeshua, nine hundred seventy and three. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Neh.7.40" data-parsed="Neh_7_40_0_0" data-passage="Neh 7.40" id="Neh.7.40"/><sup>40</sup>The children of Immer, a thousand fifty and two. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Neh.7.41" data-parsed="Neh_7_41_0_0" data-passage="Neh 7.41" id="Neh.7.41"/><sup>41</sup>The children of Pashhur, a thousand two hundred forty and seven. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Neh.7.42" data-parsed="Neh_7_42_0_0" data-passage="Neh 7.42" id="Neh.7.42"/><sup>42</sup>The children of Harim, a thousand <i>and</i> seventeen. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Neh.7.43" data-parsed="Neh_7_43_0_0" data-passage="Neh 7.43" id="Neh.7.43"/><sup>43</sup>The Levites: the children of Jeshua, of Kadmiel,
of the children of Hodevah, seventy and four. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Neh.7.44" data-parsed="Neh_7_44_0_0" data-passage="Neh 7.44" id="Neh.7.44"/><sup>44</sup>The singers: the children of Asaph, a hundred forty and eight. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Neh.7.45" data-parsed="Neh_7_45_0_0" data-passage="Neh 7.45" id="Neh.7.45"/><sup>45</sup>The porters: the children of Shallum, the children of Ater, the children of Talmon, the children of Akkub,
the children of Hatita, the children of Shobai, a hundred thirty and eight.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Neh.7.46" data-parsed="Neh_7_46_0_0" data-passage="Neh 7.46" id="Neh.7.46"/><sup>46</sup>The Nethinim: the children of Ziha, the children of Hasupha, the children of Tabbaoth, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Neh.7.47" data-parsed="Neh_7_47_0_0" data-passage="Neh 7.47" id="Neh.7.47"/><sup>47</sup>the children of Keros, the children of Sia, the children of Padon, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Neh.7.48" data-parsed="Neh_7_48_0_0" data-passage="Neh 7.48" id="Neh.7.48"/><sup>48</sup>the children of Lebana, the children of Hagaba, the children of Salmai, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Neh.7.49" data-parsed="Neh_7_49_0_0" data-passage="Neh 7.49" id="Neh.7.49"/><sup>49</sup>the children of Hanan, the children of Giddel, the children of Gahar, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Neh.7.50" data-parsed="Neh_7_50_0_0" data-passage="Neh 7.50" id="Neh.7.50"/><sup>50</sup>the children of Reaiah, the children of Rezin, the children of Nekoda, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Neh.7.51" data-parsed="Neh_7_51_0_0" data-passage="Neh 7.51" id="Neh.7.51"/><sup>51</sup>the children of Gazzam, the children of Uzza, the children of Paseah. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Neh.7.52" data-parsed="Neh_7_52_0_0" data-passage="Neh 7.52" id="Neh.7.52"/><sup>52</sup>The children of Besai, the children of Meunim, the children of Nephushesim, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Neh.7.53" data-parsed="Neh_7_53_0_0" data-passage="Neh 7.53" id="Neh.7.53"/><sup>53</sup>the children of Bakbuk, the children of Hakupha, the children of Harhur, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Neh.7.54" data-parsed="Neh_7_54_0_0" data-passage="Neh 7.54" id="Neh.7.54"/><sup>54</sup>the children of Bazlith, the children of Mehida, the children of Harsha, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Neh.7.55" data-parsed="Neh_7_55_0_0" data-passage="Neh 7.55" id="Neh.7.55"/><sup>55</sup>the children of Barkos, the children of Sisera, the children of Temah, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Neh.7.56" data-parsed="Neh_7_56_0_0" data-passage="Neh 7.56" id="Neh.7.56"/><sup>56</sup>the children of Neziah, the children of Hatipha. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Neh.7.57" data-parsed="Neh_7_57_0_0" data-passage="Neh 7.57" id="Neh.7.57"/><sup>57</sup>The children of Solomon's servants: the children of Sotai,
the children of Sophereth, the children of Perida, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Neh.7.58" data-parsed="Neh_7_58_0_0" data-passage="Neh 7.58" id="Neh.7.58"/><sup>58</sup>the children of Jaala, the children of Darkon, the children of Giddel, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Neh.7.59" data-parsed="Neh_7_59_0_0" data-passage="Neh 7.59" id="Neh.7.59"/><sup>59</sup>the children of Shephatiah, the children of Hattil, the children of Pochereth-hazzebaim, the children of Amon. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Neh.7.60" data-parsed="Neh_7_60_0_0" data-passage="Neh 7.60" id="Neh.7.60"/><sup>60</sup>All the Nethinim, and the children of Solomon's servants, were three hundred ninety and two. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Neh.7.61" data-parsed="Neh_7_61_0_0" data-passage="Neh 7.61" id="Neh.7.61"/><sup>61</sup>And these were they that went up from Tel-melah, Tel-harsha, Cherub, Addon, and Immer; but they could not show their fathers' houses, nor their seed, whether they were of Israel:

<span data-osisref="Bible:Neh.7.62" data-parsed="Neh_7_62_0_0" data-passage="Neh 7.62" id="Neh.7.62"/><sup>62</sup>The children of Delaiah, the children of Tobiah, the children of Nekoda, six hundred forty and two. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Neh.7.63" data-parsed="Neh_7_63_0_0" data-passage="Neh 7.63" id="Neh.7.63"/><sup>63</sup>And of the priests: the children of Hobaiah, the children of Hakkoz, the children of Barzillai, who took a wife of the daughters of Barzillai the Gileadite, and was called after their name.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Neh.7.64" data-parsed="Neh_7_64_0_0" data-passage="Neh 7.64" id="Neh.7.64"/><sup>64</sup>These sought their register <i>among</i> those that were reckoned by genealogy, but it was not found: therefore were they deemed polluted and put from the priesthood. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Neh.7.65" data-parsed="Neh_7_65_0_0" data-passage="Neh 7.65" id="Neh.7.65"/><sup>65</sup>And the governor said unto them, that they should not eat of the most holy things, till there stood up a priest with Urim and Thummim. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Neh.7.66" data-parsed="Neh_7_66_0_0" data-passage="Neh 7.66" id="Neh.7.66"/><sup>66</sup>The whole assembly together was forty and two thousand three hundred and threescore, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Neh.7.67" data-parsed="Neh_7_67_0_0" data-passage="Neh 7.67" id="Neh.7.67"/><sup>67</sup>besides their men-servants and their maid-servants, of whom there were seven thousand three hundred thirty and seven: and they had two hundred forty and five singing men and singing women.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Neh.7.68" data-parsed="Neh_7_68_0_0" data-passage="Neh 7.68" id="Neh.7.68"/><sup>68</sup>Their horses were seven hundred thirty and six; their mules, two hundred forty and five; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Neh.7.69" data-parsed="Neh_7_69_0_0" data-passage="Neh 7.69" id="Neh.7.69"/><sup>69</sup><i>their</i> camels, four hundred thirty and five; <i>their</i> asses, six thousand seven hundred and twenty. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Neh.7.70" data-parsed="Neh_7_70_0_0" data-passage="Neh 7.70" id="Neh.7.70"/><sup>70</sup>And some from among the heads of fathers' <i>houses</i> gave unto the work. The governor gave to the treasury a thousand darics of gold, fifty basins, five hundred and thirty priests' garments. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Neh.7.71" data-parsed="Neh_7_71_0_0" data-passage="Neh 7.71" id="Neh.7.71"/><sup>71</sup>And some of the heads of fathers'
<i>houses</i> gave into the treasury of the work twenty thousand darics of gold, and two thousand and two hundred pounds of silver. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Neh.7.72" data-parsed="Neh_7_72_0_0" data-passage="Neh 7.72" id="Neh.7.72"/><sup>72</sup>And that which the rest of the people gave was twenty thousand darics of gold, and two thousand pounds of silver, and threescore and seven priests' garments.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Neh.7.73" data-parsed="Neh_7_73_0_0" data-passage="Neh 7.73" id="Neh.7.73"/><sup>73</sup>So the priests, and the Levites, and the porters, and the singers, and some of the people, and the Nethinim, and all Israel, dwelt in their cities.
And when the seventh month was come, the children of Israel were in their cities.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>