<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Numbers 11</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Numbers 11</span></div><div data-next="Num.12" data-prev="Num.10" data-progress="14.11%" data-shorttitle="" id="Num.11" title="Numbers 11">
<h2 id="Num.11-p0.1">11</h2>
<p id="Num.11-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.11.1" data-parsed="Num_11_1_0_0" data-passage="Num 11.1" id="Num.11.1"/><sup>1</sup>And the people were as murmurers, <i>speaking</i> evil in the ears of Jehovah: and when Jehovah heard it, his anger was kindled; and the fire of Jehovah burnt among them, and devoured in the uttermost part of the camp. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.11.2" data-parsed="Num_11_2_0_0" data-passage="Num 11.2" id="Num.11.2"/><sup>2</sup>And the people cried unto Moses; and Moses prayed unto Jehovah,
and the fire abated. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.11.3" data-parsed="Num_11_3_0_0" data-passage="Num 11.3" id="Num.11.3"/><sup>3</sup>And the name of that place was called Taberah,
because the fire of Jehovah burnt among them.</p>
<p id="Num.11-p2">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.11.4" data-parsed="Num_11_4_0_0" data-passage="Num 11.4" id="Num.11.4"/><sup>4</sup>And the mixed multitude that was among them lusted exceedingly: and the children of Israel also wept again, and said, Who shall give us flesh to eat?

<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.11.5" data-parsed="Num_11_5_0_0" data-passage="Num 11.5" id="Num.11.5"/><sup>5</sup>We remember the fish, which we did eat in Egypt for nought; the cucumbers, and the melons, and the leeks, and the onions, and the garlic:

<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.11.6" data-parsed="Num_11_6_0_0" data-passage="Num 11.6" id="Num.11.6"/><sup>6</sup>but now our soul is dried away; there is nothing at all save this manna to look upon. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.11.7" data-parsed="Num_11_7_0_0" data-passage="Num 11.7" id="Num.11.7"/><sup>7</sup>And the manna was like coriander seed, and the appearance thereof as the appearance of bdellium. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.11.8" data-parsed="Num_11_8_0_0" data-passage="Num 11.8" id="Num.11.8"/><sup>8</sup>The people went about, and gathered it, and ground it in mills, or beat it in mortars, and boiled it in pots, and made cakes of it: and the taste of it was as the taste of fresh oil. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.11.9" data-parsed="Num_11_9_0_0" data-passage="Num 11.9" id="Num.11.9"/><sup>9</sup>And when the dew fell upon the camp in the night, the manna fell upon it. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.11.10" data-parsed="Num_11_10_0_0" data-passage="Num 11.10" id="Num.11.10"/><sup>10</sup>And Moses heard the people weeping throughout their families,
every man at the door of his tent: and the anger of Jehovah was kindled greatly; and Moses was displeased. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.11.11" data-parsed="Num_11_11_0_0" data-passage="Num 11.11" id="Num.11.11"/><sup>11</sup>And Moses said unto Jehovah,
Wherefore hast thou dealt ill with thy servant? and wherefore have I not found favor in thy sight, that thou layest the burden of all this people upon me? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.11.12" data-parsed="Num_11_12_0_0" data-passage="Num 11.12" id="Num.11.12"/><sup>12</sup>Have I conceived all this people? have I brought them forth, that thou shouldest say unto me, Carry them in thy bosom, as a nursing-father carrieth the sucking child, unto the land which thou swarest unto their fathers? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.11.13" data-parsed="Num_11_13_0_0" data-passage="Num 11.13" id="Num.11.13"/><sup>13</sup>Whence should I have flesh to give unto all this people? for they weep unto me, saying, Give us flesh, that we may eat. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.11.14" data-parsed="Num_11_14_0_0" data-passage="Num 11.14" id="Num.11.14"/><sup>14</sup>I am not able to bear all this people alone, because it is too heavy for me. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.11.15" data-parsed="Num_11_15_0_0" data-passage="Num 11.15" id="Num.11.15"/><sup>15</sup>And if thou deal thus with me, kill me, I pray thee, out of hand, if I have found favor in thy sight; and let me not see my wretchedness.</p>
<p id="Num.11-p3">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.11.16" data-parsed="Num_11_16_0_0" data-passage="Num 11.16" id="Num.11.16"/><sup>16</sup>And Jehovah said unto Moses, Gather unto me seventy men of the elders of Israel, whom thou knowest to be the elders of the people, and officers over them; and bring them unto the tent of meeting, that they may stand there with thee. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.11.17" data-parsed="Num_11_17_0_0" data-passage="Num 11.17" id="Num.11.17"/><sup>17</sup>And I will come down and talk with thee there: and I will take of the Spirit which is upon thee, and will put it upon them; and they shall bear the burden of the people with thee, that thou bear it not thyself alone. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.11.18" data-parsed="Num_11_18_0_0" data-passage="Num 11.18" id="Num.11.18"/><sup>18</sup>And say thou unto the people, Sanctify yourselves against to-morrow, and ye shall eat flesh; for ye have wept in the ears of Jehovah,
saying, Who shall give us flesh to eat? for it was well with us in Egypt:
therefore Jehovah will give you flesh, and ye shall eat. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.11.19" data-parsed="Num_11_19_0_0" data-passage="Num 11.19" id="Num.11.19"/><sup>19</sup>Ye shall not eat one day, nor two days, nor five days, neither ten days, nor twenty days,

<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.11.20" data-parsed="Num_11_20_0_0" data-passage="Num 11.20" id="Num.11.20"/><sup>20</sup>but a whole month, until it come out at your nostrils, and it be loathsome unto you; because that ye have rejected Jehovah who is among you,
and have wept before him, saying, Why came we forth out of Egypt? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.11.21" data-parsed="Num_11_21_0_0" data-passage="Num 11.21" id="Num.11.21"/><sup>21</sup>And Moses said, The people, among whom I am, are six hundred thousand footmen;
and thou hast said, I will give them flesh, that they may eat a whole month.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.11.22" data-parsed="Num_11_22_0_0" data-passage="Num 11.22" id="Num.11.22"/><sup>22</sup>Shall flocks and herds be slain for them, to suffice them? or shall all the fish of the sea be gathered together for them, to suffice them? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.11.23" data-parsed="Num_11_23_0_0" data-passage="Num 11.23" id="Num.11.23"/><sup>23</sup>And Jehovah said unto Moses, Is Jehovah's hand waxed short? now shalt thou see whether my word shall come to pass unto thee or not.</p>
<p id="Num.11-p4">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.11.24" data-parsed="Num_11_24_0_0" data-passage="Num 11.24" id="Num.11.24"/><sup>24</sup>And Moses went out, and told the people the words of Jehovah: and he gathered seventy men of the elders of the people, and set them round about the Tent. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.11.25" data-parsed="Num_11_25_0_0" data-passage="Num 11.25" id="Num.11.25"/><sup>25</sup>And Jehovah came down in the cloud, and spake unto him, and took of the Spirit that was upon him, and put it upon the seventy elders: and it came to pass, that, when the Spirit rested upon them, they prophesied, but they did so no more.</p>
<p id="Num.11-p5">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.11.26" data-parsed="Num_11_26_0_0" data-passage="Num 11.26" id="Num.11.26"/><sup>26</sup>But there remained two men in the camp, the name of the one was Eldad,
and the name of the other Medad: and the Spirit rested upon them; and they were of them that were written, but had not gone out unto the Tent; and they prophesied in the camp. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.11.27" data-parsed="Num_11_27_0_0" data-passage="Num 11.27" id="Num.11.27"/><sup>27</sup>And there ran a young man, and told Moses, and said, Eldad and Medad do prophesy in the camp. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.11.28" data-parsed="Num_11_28_0_0" data-passage="Num 11.28" id="Num.11.28"/><sup>28</sup>And Joshua the son of Nun, the minister of Moses, one of his chosen men, answered and said, My lord Moses, forbid them. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.11.29" data-parsed="Num_11_29_0_0" data-passage="Num 11.29" id="Num.11.29"/><sup>29</sup>And Moses said unto him, Art thou jealous for my sake? would that all Jehovah's people were prophets, that Jehovah would put his Spirit upon them! 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.11.30" data-parsed="Num_11_30_0_0" data-passage="Num 11.30" id="Num.11.30"/><sup>30</sup>And Moses gat him into the camp, he and the elders of Israel.</p>
<p id="Num.11-p6">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.11.31" data-parsed="Num_11_31_0_0" data-passage="Num 11.31" id="Num.11.31"/><sup>31</sup>And there went forth a wind from Jehovah, and brought quails from the sea, and let them fall by the camp, about a day's journey on this side, and a day's journey on the other side, round about the camp, and about two cubits above the face of the earth. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.11.32" data-parsed="Num_11_32_0_0" data-passage="Num 11.32" id="Num.11.32"/><sup>32</sup>And the people rose up all that day, and all the night, and all the next day, and gathered the quails: he that gathered least gathered ten homers: and they spread them all abroad for themselves round about the camp. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.11.33" data-parsed="Num_11_33_0_0" data-passage="Num 11.33" id="Num.11.33"/><sup>33</sup>While the flesh was yet between their teeth, ere it was chewed, the anger of Jehovah was kindled against the people, and Jehovah smote the people with a very great plague. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.11.34" data-parsed="Num_11_34_0_0" data-passage="Num 11.34" id="Num.11.34"/><sup>34</sup>And the name of that place was called Kibrothhattaavah, because there they buried the people that lusted. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.11.35" data-parsed="Num_11_35_0_0" data-passage="Num 11.35" id="Num.11.35"/><sup>35</sup>From Kibrothhattaavah the people journeyed unto Hazeroth; and they abode at Hazeroth.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>