<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Numbers 19</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Numbers 19</span></div><div data-next="Num.20" data-prev="Num.18" data-progress="15.00%" data-shorttitle="" id="Num.19" title="Numbers 19">
<h2 id="Num.19-p0.1">19</h2>
<p id="Num.19-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.19.1" data-parsed="Num_19_1_0_0" data-passage="Num 19.1" id="Num.19.1"/><sup>1</sup>And Jehovah spake unto Moses and unto Aaron, saying, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.19.2" data-parsed="Num_19_2_0_0" data-passage="Num 19.2" id="Num.19.2"/><sup>2</sup>This is the statute of the law which Jehovah hath commanded, saying, Speak unto the children of Israel, that they bring thee a red heifer without spot, wherein is no blemish, <i>and</i> upon which never came yoke. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.19.3" data-parsed="Num_19_3_0_0" data-passage="Num 19.3" id="Num.19.3"/><sup>3</sup>And ye shall give her unto Eleazar the priest, and he shall bring her forth without the camp,
and one shall slay her before his face: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.19.4" data-parsed="Num_19_4_0_0" data-passage="Num 19.4" id="Num.19.4"/><sup>4</sup>and Eleazar the priest shall take of her blood with his finger, and sprinkle her blood toward the front of the tent of meeting seven times. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.19.5" data-parsed="Num_19_5_0_0" data-passage="Num 19.5" id="Num.19.5"/><sup>5</sup>And one shall burn the heifer in his sight; her skin, and her flesh, and her blood, with her dung, shall he burn:

<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.19.6" data-parsed="Num_19_6_0_0" data-passage="Num 19.6" id="Num.19.6"/><sup>6</sup>and the priest shall take cedar-wood, and hyssop, and scarlet, and cast it into the midst of the burning of the heifer. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.19.7" data-parsed="Num_19_7_0_0" data-passage="Num 19.7" id="Num.19.7"/><sup>7</sup>Then the priest shall wash his clothes, and he shall bathe his flesh in water, and afterward he shall come into the camp, and the priest shall be unclean until the even.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.19.8" data-parsed="Num_19_8_0_0" data-passage="Num 19.8" id="Num.19.8"/><sup>8</sup>And he that burneth her shall wash his clothes in water, and bathe his flesh in water, and shall be unclean until the even. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.19.9" data-parsed="Num_19_9_0_0" data-passage="Num 19.9" id="Num.19.9"/><sup>9</sup>And a man that is clean shall gather up the ashes of the heifer, and lay them up without the camp in a clean place; and it shall be kept for the congregation of the children of Israel for a water for impurity: it is a sin-offering. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.19.10" data-parsed="Num_19_10_0_0" data-passage="Num 19.10" id="Num.19.10"/><sup>10</sup>And he that gathereth the ashes of the heifer shall wash his clothes, and be unclean until the even: and it shall be unto the children of Israel, and unto the stranger that sojourneth among them, for a statute for ever.</p>
<p id="Num.19-p2">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.19.11" data-parsed="Num_19_11_0_0" data-passage="Num 19.11" id="Num.19.11"/><sup>11</sup>He that toucheth the dead body of any man shall be unclean seven days:

<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.19.12" data-parsed="Num_19_12_0_0" data-passage="Num 19.12" id="Num.19.12"/><sup>12</sup>the same shall purify himself therewith on the third day, and on the seventh day he shall be clean: but if he purify not himself the third day,
then the seventh day he shall not be clean. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.19.13" data-parsed="Num_19_13_0_0" data-passage="Num 19.13" id="Num.19.13"/><sup>13</sup>Whosoever toucheth a dead person, the body of a man that hath died, and purifieth not himself, defileth the tabernacle of Jehovah; and that soul shall be cut off from Israel:
because the water for impurity was not sprinkled upon him, he shall be unclean; his uncleanness is yet upon him.</p>
<p id="Num.19-p3">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.19.14" data-parsed="Num_19_14_0_0" data-passage="Num 19.14" id="Num.19.14"/><sup>14</sup>This is the law when a man dieth in a tent: every one that cometh into the tent, and every one that is in the tent, shall be unclean seven days.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.19.15" data-parsed="Num_19_15_0_0" data-passage="Num 19.15" id="Num.19.15"/><sup>15</sup>And every open vessel, which hath no covering bound upon it, is unclean. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.19.16" data-parsed="Num_19_16_0_0" data-passage="Num 19.16" id="Num.19.16"/><sup>16</sup>And whosoever in the open field toucheth one that is slain with a sword, or a dead body, or a bone of a man, or a grave, shall be unclean seven days. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.19.17" data-parsed="Num_19_17_0_0" data-passage="Num 19.17" id="Num.19.17"/><sup>17</sup>And for the unclean they shall take of the ashes of the burning of the sin-offering; and running water shall be put thereto in a vessel: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.19.18" data-parsed="Num_19_18_0_0" data-passage="Num 19.18" id="Num.19.18"/><sup>18</sup>and a clean person shall take hyssop, and dip it in the water,
and sprinkle it upon the tent, and upon all the vessels, and upon the persons that were there, and upon him that touched the bone, or the slain, or the dead, or the grave: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.19.19" data-parsed="Num_19_19_0_0" data-passage="Num 19.19" id="Num.19.19"/><sup>19</sup>and the clean person shall sprinkle upon the unclean on the third day, and on the seventh day: and on the seventh day he shall purify him; and he shall wash his clothes, and bathe himself in water,
and shall be clean at even.</p>
<p id="Num.19-p4">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.19.20" data-parsed="Num_19_20_0_0" data-passage="Num 19.20" id="Num.19.20"/><sup>20</sup>But the man that shall be unclean, and shall not purify himself, that soul shall be cut off from the midst of the assembly, because he hath defiled the sanctuary of Jehovah: the water for impurity hath not been sprinkled upon him; he is unclean. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.19.21" data-parsed="Num_19_21_0_0" data-passage="Num 19.21" id="Num.19.21"/><sup>21</sup>And it shall be a perpetual statute unto them: and he that sprinkleth the water for impurity shall wash his clothes, and he that toucheth the water for impurity shall be unclean until even. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.19.22" data-parsed="Num_19_22_0_0" data-passage="Num 19.22" id="Num.19.22"/><sup>22</sup>And whatsoever the unclean person toucheth shall be unclean; and the soul that toucheth it shall be unclean until even.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>