<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Numbers 16</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Numbers 16</span></div><div data-next="Num.17" data-prev="Num.15" data-progress="14.66%" data-shorttitle="" id="Num.16" title="Numbers 16">
<h2 id="Num.16-p0.1">16</h2>
<p id="Num.16-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.16.1" data-parsed="Num_16_1_0_0" data-passage="Num 16.1" id="Num.16.1"/><sup>1</sup>Now Korah, the son of Izhar, the son of Kohath, the son of Levi,
with Dathan and Abiram, the sons of Eliab, and On, the son of Peleth, sons of Reuben, took <i>men</i>: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.16.2" data-parsed="Num_16_2_0_0" data-passage="Num 16.2" id="Num.16.2"/><sup>2</sup>and they rose up before Moses, with certain of the children of Israel, two hundred and fifty princes of the congregation,
called to the assembly, men of renown; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.16.3" data-parsed="Num_16_3_0_0" data-passage="Num 16.3" id="Num.16.3"/><sup>3</sup>and they assembled themselves together against Moses and against Aaron, and said unto them, Ye take too much upon you, seeing all the congregation are holy, every one of them, and Jehovah is among them: wherefore then lift ye up yourselves above the assembly of Jehovah?</p>
<p id="Num.16-p2">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.16.4" data-parsed="Num_16_4_0_0" data-passage="Num 16.4" id="Num.16.4"/><sup>4</sup>And when Moses heard it, he fell upon his face: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.16.5" data-parsed="Num_16_5_0_0" data-passage="Num 16.5" id="Num.16.5"/><sup>5</sup>and he spake unto Korah and unto all his company, saying, In the morning Jehovah will show who are his, and who is holy, and will cause him to come near unto him: even him whom he shall choose will he cause to come near unto him. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.16.6" data-parsed="Num_16_6_0_0" data-passage="Num 16.6" id="Num.16.6"/><sup>6</sup>This do: take you censers, Korah, and all his company; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.16.7" data-parsed="Num_16_7_0_0" data-passage="Num 16.7" id="Num.16.7"/><sup>7</sup>and put fire in them, and put incense upon them before Jehovah to-morrow: and it shall be that the man whom Jehovah doth choose, he <i>shall be</i> holy: ye take too much upon you, ye sons of Levi. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.16.8" data-parsed="Num_16_8_0_0" data-passage="Num 16.8" id="Num.16.8"/><sup>8</sup>And Moses said unto Korah, Hear now, ye sons of Levi:

<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.16.9" data-parsed="Num_16_9_0_0" data-passage="Num 16.9" id="Num.16.9"/><sup>9</sup><i>seemeth it but</i> a small thing unto you, that the God of Israel hath separated you from the congregation of Israel, to bring you near to himself, to do the service of the tabernacle of Jehovah, and to stand before the congregation to minister unto them; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.16.10" data-parsed="Num_16_10_0_0" data-passage="Num 16.10" id="Num.16.10"/><sup>10</sup>and that he hath brought thee near, and all thy brethren the sons of Levi with thee? and seek ye the priesthood also? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.16.11" data-parsed="Num_16_11_0_0" data-passage="Num 16.11" id="Num.16.11"/><sup>11</sup>Therefore thou and all thy company are gathered together against Jehovah: and Aaron, what is he that ye murmur against him?</p>
<p id="Num.16-p3">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.16.12" data-parsed="Num_16_12_0_0" data-passage="Num 16.12" id="Num.16.12"/><sup>12</sup>And Moses sent to call Dathan and Abiram, the sons of Eliab; and they said, We will not come up: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.16.13" data-parsed="Num_16_13_0_0" data-passage="Num 16.13" id="Num.16.13"/><sup>13</sup>is it a small thing that thou hast brought us up out of a land flowing with milk and honey, to kill us in the wilderness, but thou must needs make thyself also a prince over us?

<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.16.14" data-parsed="Num_16_14_0_0" data-passage="Num 16.14" id="Num.16.14"/><sup>14</sup>Moreover thou hast not brought us into a land flowing with milk and honey, nor given us inheritance of fields and vineyards: wilt thou put out the eyes of these men? we will not come up.</p>
<p id="Num.16-p4">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.16.15" data-parsed="Num_16_15_0_0" data-passage="Num 16.15" id="Num.16.15"/><sup>15</sup>And Moses was very wroth, and said unto Jehovah, Respect not thou their offering: I have not taken one ass from them, neither have I hurt one of them. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.16.16" data-parsed="Num_16_16_0_0" data-passage="Num 16.16" id="Num.16.16"/><sup>16</sup>And Moses said unto Korah, Be thou and all thy company before Jehovah, thou, and they, and Aaron, to-morrow: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.16.17" data-parsed="Num_16_17_0_0" data-passage="Num 16.17" id="Num.16.17"/><sup>17</sup>and take ye every man his censer, and put incense upon them, and bring ye before Jehovah every man his censer, two hundred and fifty censers; thou also, and Aaron, each his censer. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.16.18" data-parsed="Num_16_18_0_0" data-passage="Num 16.18" id="Num.16.18"/><sup>18</sup>And they took every man his censer, and put fire in them, and laid incense thereon, and stood at the door of the tent of meeting with Moses and Aaron. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.16.19" data-parsed="Num_16_19_0_0" data-passage="Num 16.19" id="Num.16.19"/><sup>19</sup>And Korah assembled all the congregation against them unto the door of the tent of meeting: and the glory of Jehovah appeared unto all the congregation.</p>
<p id="Num.16-p5">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.16.20" data-parsed="Num_16_20_0_0" data-passage="Num 16.20" id="Num.16.20"/><sup>20</sup>And Jehovah spake unto Moses and unto Aaron, saying, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.16.21" data-parsed="Num_16_21_0_0" data-passage="Num 16.21" id="Num.16.21"/><sup>21</sup>Separate yourselves from among this congregation, that I may consume them in a moment.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.16.22" data-parsed="Num_16_22_0_0" data-passage="Num 16.22" id="Num.16.22"/><sup>22</sup>And they fell upon their faces, and said, O God, the God of the spirits of all flesh, shall one man sin, and wilt thou be wroth with all the congregation? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.16.23" data-parsed="Num_16_23_0_0" data-passage="Num 16.23" id="Num.16.23"/><sup>23</sup>And Jehovah spake unto Moses, saying, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.16.24" data-parsed="Num_16_24_0_0" data-passage="Num 16.24" id="Num.16.24"/><sup>24</sup>Speak unto the congregation, saying, Get you up from about the tabernacle of Korah,
Dathan, and Abiram.</p>
<p id="Num.16-p6">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.16.25" data-parsed="Num_16_25_0_0" data-passage="Num 16.25" id="Num.16.25"/><sup>25</sup>And Moses rose up and went unto Dathan and Abiram; and the elders of Israel followed him. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.16.26" data-parsed="Num_16_26_0_0" data-passage="Num 16.26" id="Num.16.26"/><sup>26</sup>And he spake unto the congregation, saying,
Depart, I pray you, from the tents of these wicked men, and touch nothing of theirs, lest ye be consumed in all their sins. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.16.27" data-parsed="Num_16_27_0_0" data-passage="Num 16.27" id="Num.16.27"/><sup>27</sup>So they gat them up from the tabernacle of Korah, Dathan, and Abiram, on every side: and Dathan and Abiram came out, and stood at the door of their tents, and their wives, and their sons, and their little ones. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.16.28" data-parsed="Num_16_28_0_0" data-passage="Num 16.28" id="Num.16.28"/><sup>28</sup>And Moses said, Hereby ye shall know that Jehovah hath sent me to do all these works; for <i>I have</i> not <i>done them</i> of mine own mind. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.16.29" data-parsed="Num_16_29_0_0" data-passage="Num 16.29" id="Num.16.29"/><sup>29</sup>If these men die the common death of all men, or if they be visited after the visitation of all men; then Jehovah hath not sent me. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.16.30" data-parsed="Num_16_30_0_0" data-passage="Num 16.30" id="Num.16.30"/><sup>30</sup>But if Jehovah make a new thing, and the ground open its mouth, and swallow them up, with all that appertain unto them, and they go down alive into Sheol; then ye shall understand that these men have despised Jehovah.</p>
<p id="Num.16-p7">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.16.31" data-parsed="Num_16_31_0_0" data-passage="Num 16.31" id="Num.16.31"/><sup>31</sup>And it came to pass, as he made an end of speaking all these words,
that the ground clave asunder that was under them; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.16.32" data-parsed="Num_16_32_0_0" data-passage="Num 16.32" id="Num.16.32"/><sup>32</sup>and the earth opened its mouth, and swallowed them up, and their households, and all the men that appertained unto Korah, and all their goods. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.16.33" data-parsed="Num_16_33_0_0" data-passage="Num 16.33" id="Num.16.33"/><sup>33</sup>So they, and all that appertained to them, went down alive into Sheol: and the earth closed upon them, and they perished from among the assembly. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.16.34" data-parsed="Num_16_34_0_0" data-passage="Num 16.34" id="Num.16.34"/><sup>34</sup>And all Israel that were round about them fled at the cry of them; for they said, Lest the earth swallow us up. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.16.35" data-parsed="Num_16_35_0_0" data-passage="Num 16.35" id="Num.16.35"/><sup>35</sup>And fire came forth from Jehovah, and devoured the two hundred and fifty men that offered the incense.</p>
<p id="Num.16-p8">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.16.36" data-parsed="Num_16_36_0_0" data-passage="Num 16.36" id="Num.16.36"/><sup>36</sup>And Jehovah spake unto Moses, saying, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.16.37" data-parsed="Num_16_37_0_0" data-passage="Num 16.37" id="Num.16.37"/><sup>37</sup>Speak unto Eleazar the son of Aaron the priest, that he take up the censers out of the burning, and scatter thou the fire yonder; for they are holy, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.16.38" data-parsed="Num_16_38_0_0" data-passage="Num 16.38" id="Num.16.38"/><sup>38</sup>even the censers of these sinners against their own lives; and let them be made beaten plates for a covering of the altar: for they offered them before Jehovah; therefore they are holy; and they shall be a sign unto the children of Israel. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.16.39" data-parsed="Num_16_39_0_0" data-passage="Num 16.39" id="Num.16.39"/><sup>39</sup>And Eleazar the priest took the brazen censers, which they that were burnt had offered; and they beat them out for a covering of the altar, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.16.40" data-parsed="Num_16_40_0_0" data-passage="Num 16.40" id="Num.16.40"/><sup>40</sup>to be a memorial unto the children of Israel, to the end that no stranger, that is not of the seed of Aaron, come near to burn incense before Jehovah; that he be not as Korah, and as his company: as Jehovah spake unto him by Moses.</p>
<p id="Num.16-p9">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.16.41" data-parsed="Num_16_41_0_0" data-passage="Num 16.41" id="Num.16.41"/><sup>41</sup>But on the morrow all the congregation of the children of Israel murmured against Moses and against Aaron, saying, Ye have killed the people of Jehovah. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.16.42" data-parsed="Num_16_42_0_0" data-passage="Num 16.42" id="Num.16.42"/><sup>42</sup>And it came to pass, when the congregation was assembled against Moses and against Aaron, that they looked toward the tent of meeting:
and, behold, the cloud covered it, and the glory of Jehovah appeared.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.16.43" data-parsed="Num_16_43_0_0" data-passage="Num 16.43" id="Num.16.43"/><sup>43</sup>And Moses and Aaron came to the front of the tent of meeting. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.16.44" data-parsed="Num_16_44_0_0" data-passage="Num 16.44" id="Num.16.44"/><sup>44</sup>And Jehovah spake unto Moses, saying, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.16.45" data-parsed="Num_16_45_0_0" data-passage="Num 16.45" id="Num.16.45"/><sup>45</sup>Get you up from among this congregation, that I may consume them in a moment. And they fell upon their faces. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.16.46" data-parsed="Num_16_46_0_0" data-passage="Num 16.46" id="Num.16.46"/><sup>46</sup>And Moses said unto Aaron, Take they censer, and put fire therein from off the altar, and lay incense thereon, and carry it quickly unto the congregation, and make atonement for them: for there is wrath gone out from Jehovah; the plague is begun. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.16.47" data-parsed="Num_16_47_0_0" data-passage="Num 16.47" id="Num.16.47"/><sup>47</sup>And Aaron took as Moses spake,
and ran into the midst of the assembly; and, behold, the plague was begun among the people: and he put on the incense, and made atonement for the people. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.16.48" data-parsed="Num_16_48_0_0" data-passage="Num 16.48" id="Num.16.48"/><sup>48</sup>And he stood between the dead and the living; and the plague was stayed. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.16.49" data-parsed="Num_16_49_0_0" data-passage="Num 16.49" id="Num.16.49"/><sup>49</sup>Now they that died by the plague were fourteen thousand and seven hundred, besides them that died about the matter of Korah. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.16.50" data-parsed="Num_16_50_0_0" data-passage="Num 16.50" id="Num.16.50"/><sup>50</sup>And Aaron returned unto Moses unto the door of the tent of meeting: and the plague was stayed.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>