<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Numbers 14</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Numbers 14</span></div><div data-next="Num.15" data-prev="Num.13" data-progress="14.38%" data-shorttitle="" id="Num.14" title="Numbers 14">
<h2 id="Num.14-p0.1">14</h2>
<p id="Num.14-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.14.1" data-parsed="Num_14_1_0_0" data-passage="Num 14.1" id="Num.14.1"/><sup>1</sup>And all the congregation lifted up their voice, and cried; and the people wept that night. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.14.2" data-parsed="Num_14_2_0_0" data-passage="Num 14.2" id="Num.14.2"/><sup>2</sup>And all the children of Israel murmured against Moses and against Aaron: and the whole congregation said unto them, Would that we had died in the land of Egypt! or would that we had died in this wilderness! 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.14.3" data-parsed="Num_14_3_0_0" data-passage="Num 14.3" id="Num.14.3"/><sup>3</sup>And wherefore doth Jehovah bring us unto this land, to fall by the sword? Our wives and our little ones will be a prey: were it not better for us to return into Egypt?</p>
<p id="Num.14-p2">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.14.4" data-parsed="Num_14_4_0_0" data-passage="Num 14.4" id="Num.14.4"/><sup>4</sup>And they said one to another, Let us make a captain, and let us return into Egypt. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.14.5" data-parsed="Num_14_5_0_0" data-passage="Num 14.5" id="Num.14.5"/><sup>5</sup>Then Moses and Aaron fell on their faces before all the assembly of the congregation of the children of Israel. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.14.6" data-parsed="Num_14_6_0_0" data-passage="Num 14.6" id="Num.14.6"/><sup>6</sup>And Joshua the son of Nun and Caleb the son of Jephunneh, who were of them that spied out the land, rent their clothes: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.14.7" data-parsed="Num_14_7_0_0" data-passage="Num 14.7" id="Num.14.7"/><sup>7</sup>and they spake unto all the congregation of the children of Israel, saying, The land, which we passed through to spy it out, is an exceeding good land. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.14.8" data-parsed="Num_14_8_0_0" data-passage="Num 14.8" id="Num.14.8"/><sup>8</sup>If Jehovah delight in us, then he will bring us into this land, and give it unto us; a land which floweth with milk and honey. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.14.9" data-parsed="Num_14_9_0_0" data-passage="Num 14.9" id="Num.14.9"/><sup>9</sup>Only rebel not against Jehovah, neither fear ye the people of the land; for they are bread for us: their defence is removed from over them, and Jehovah is with us: fear them not. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.14.10" data-parsed="Num_14_10_0_0" data-passage="Num 14.10" id="Num.14.10"/><sup>10</sup>But all the congregation bade stone them with stones. And the glory of Jehovah appeared in the tent of meeting unto all the children of Israel.</p>
<p id="Num.14-p3">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.14.11" data-parsed="Num_14_11_0_0" data-passage="Num 14.11" id="Num.14.11"/><sup>11</sup>And Jehovah said unto Moses, How long will this people despise me? and how long will they not believe in me, for all the signs which I have wrought among them? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.14.12" data-parsed="Num_14_12_0_0" data-passage="Num 14.12" id="Num.14.12"/><sup>12</sup>I will smite them with the pestilence, and disinherit them,
and will make of thee a nation greater and mightier than they.</p>
<p id="Num.14-p4">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.14.13" data-parsed="Num_14_13_0_0" data-passage="Num 14.13" id="Num.14.13"/><sup>13</sup>And Moses said unto Jehovah, Then the Egyptians will hear it; for thou broughtest up this people in thy might from among them; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.14.14" data-parsed="Num_14_14_0_0" data-passage="Num 14.14" id="Num.14.14"/><sup>14</sup>and they will tell it to the inhabitants of this land. They have heard that thou Jehovah art in the midst of this people; for thou Jehovah art seen face to face, and thy cloud standeth over them, and thou goest before them, in a pillar of cloud by day, and in a pillar of fire by night. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.14.15" data-parsed="Num_14_15_0_0" data-passage="Num 14.15" id="Num.14.15"/><sup>15</sup>Now if thou shalt kill this people as one man, then the nations which have heard the fame of thee will speak, saying, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.14.16" data-parsed="Num_14_16_0_0" data-passage="Num 14.16" id="Num.14.16"/><sup>16</sup>Because Jehovah was not able to bring this people into the land which he sware unto them, therefore he hath slain them in the wilderness. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.14.17" data-parsed="Num_14_17_0_0" data-passage="Num 14.17" id="Num.14.17"/><sup>17</sup>And now, I pray thee, let the power of the Lord be great,
according as thou hast spoken, saying, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.14.18" data-parsed="Num_14_18_0_0" data-passage="Num 14.18" id="Num.14.18"/><sup>18</sup>Jehovah is slow to anger, and abundant in lovingkindness, forgiving iniquity and transgression; and that will by no means clear <i>the guilty</i>, visiting the iniquity of the fathers upon the children, upon the third and upon the fourth generation.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.14.19" data-parsed="Num_14_19_0_0" data-passage="Num 14.19" id="Num.14.19"/><sup>19</sup>Pardon, I pray thee, the iniquity of this people according unto the greatness of thy lovingkindness, and according as thou hast forgiven this people, from Egypt even until now.</p>
<p id="Num.14-p5">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.14.20" data-parsed="Num_14_20_0_0" data-passage="Num 14.20" id="Num.14.20"/><sup>20</sup>And Jehovah said, I have pardoned according to thy word: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.14.21" data-parsed="Num_14_21_0_0" data-passage="Num 14.21" id="Num.14.21"/><sup>21</sup>but in very deed, as I live, and as all the earth shall be filled with the glory of Jehovah; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.14.22" data-parsed="Num_14_22_0_0" data-passage="Num 14.22" id="Num.14.22"/><sup>22</sup>because all those men that have seen my glory, and my signs,
which I wrought in Egypt and in the wilderness, yet have tempted me these ten times, and have not hearkened to my voice; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.14.23" data-parsed="Num_14_23_0_0" data-passage="Num 14.23" id="Num.14.23"/><sup>23</sup>surely they shall not see the land which I sware unto their fathers, neither shall any of them that despised me see it: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.14.24" data-parsed="Num_14_24_0_0" data-passage="Num 14.24" id="Num.14.24"/><sup>24</sup>but my servant Caleb, because he had another spirit with him, and hath followed me fully, him will I bring into the land whereinto he went; and his seed shall possess it. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.14.25" data-parsed="Num_14_25_0_0" data-passage="Num 14.25" id="Num.14.25"/><sup>25</sup>Now the Amalekite and the Canaanite dwell in the valley: to-morrow turn ye, and get you into the wilderness by the way to the Red Sea.</p>
<p id="Num.14-p6">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.14.26" data-parsed="Num_14_26_0_0" data-passage="Num 14.26" id="Num.14.26"/><sup>26</sup>And Jehovah spake unto Moses and unto Aaron, saying, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.14.27" data-parsed="Num_14_27_0_0" data-passage="Num 14.27" id="Num.14.27"/><sup>27</sup>How long <i>shall I bear</i> with this evil congregation, that murmur against me? I have heard the murmurings of the children of Israel, which they murmur against me. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.14.28" data-parsed="Num_14_28_0_0" data-passage="Num 14.28" id="Num.14.28"/><sup>28</sup>Say unto them, As I live, saith Jehovah, surely as ye have spoken in mine ears, so will I do to you: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.14.29" data-parsed="Num_14_29_0_0" data-passage="Num 14.29" id="Num.14.29"/><sup>29</sup>your dead bodies shall fall in this wilderness; and all that were numbered of you, according to your whole number, from twenty years old and upward, that have murmured against me, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.14.30" data-parsed="Num_14_30_0_0" data-passage="Num 14.30" id="Num.14.30"/><sup>30</sup>surely ye shall not come into the land, concerning which I sware that I would make you dwell therein, save Caleb the son of Jephunneh, and Joshua the son of Nun. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.14.31" data-parsed="Num_14_31_0_0" data-passage="Num 14.31" id="Num.14.31"/><sup>31</sup>But your little ones, that ye said should be a prey, them will I bring in, and they shall know the land which ye have rejected. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.14.32" data-parsed="Num_14_32_0_0" data-passage="Num 14.32" id="Num.14.32"/><sup>32</sup>But as for you, your dead bodies shall fall in this wilderness. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.14.33" data-parsed="Num_14_33_0_0" data-passage="Num 14.33" id="Num.14.33"/><sup>33</sup>And your children shall be wanderers in the wilderness forty years, and shall bear your whoredoms, until your dead bodies be consumed in the wilderness. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.14.34" data-parsed="Num_14_34_0_0" data-passage="Num 14.34" id="Num.14.34"/><sup>34</sup>After the number of the days in which ye spied out the land, even forty days, for every day a year, shall ye bear your iniquities, even forty years, and ye shall know my alienation. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.14.35" data-parsed="Num_14_35_0_0" data-passage="Num 14.35" id="Num.14.35"/><sup>35</sup>I,
Jehovah, have spoken, surely this will I do unto all this evil congregation,
that are gathered together against me: in this wilderness they shall be consumed, and there they shall die.</p>
<p id="Num.14-p7">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.14.36" data-parsed="Num_14_36_0_0" data-passage="Num 14.36" id="Num.14.36"/><sup>36</sup>And the men, whom Moses sent to spy out the land, who returned, and made all the congregation to murmur against him, by bringing up an evil report against the land, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.14.37" data-parsed="Num_14_37_0_0" data-passage="Num 14.37" id="Num.14.37"/><sup>37</sup>even those men that did bring up an evil report of the land, died by the plague before Jehovah. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.14.38" data-parsed="Num_14_38_0_0" data-passage="Num 14.38" id="Num.14.38"/><sup>38</sup>But Joshua the son of Nun, and Caleb the son of Jephunneh, remained alive of those men that went to spy out the land.</p>
<p id="Num.14-p8">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.14.39" data-parsed="Num_14_39_0_0" data-passage="Num 14.39" id="Num.14.39"/><sup>39</sup>And Moses told these words unto all the children of Israel: and the people mourned greatly. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.14.40" data-parsed="Num_14_40_0_0" data-passage="Num 14.40" id="Num.14.40"/><sup>40</sup>And they rose up early in the morning, and gat them up to the top of the mountain, saying, Lo, we are here, and will go up unto the place which Jehovah hath promised: for we have sinned. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.14.41" data-parsed="Num_14_41_0_0" data-passage="Num 14.41" id="Num.14.41"/><sup>41</sup>And Moses said, Wherefore now do ye transgress the commandment of Jehovah, seeing it shall not prosper? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.14.42" data-parsed="Num_14_42_0_0" data-passage="Num 14.42" id="Num.14.42"/><sup>42</sup>Go not up, for Jehovah is not among you; that ye be not smitten down before your enemies. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.14.43" data-parsed="Num_14_43_0_0" data-passage="Num 14.43" id="Num.14.43"/><sup>43</sup>For there the Amalekite and the Canaanite are before you, and ye shall fall by the sword: because ye are turned back from following Jehovah, therefore Jehovah will not be with you.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.14.44" data-parsed="Num_14_44_0_0" data-passage="Num 14.44" id="Num.14.44"/><sup>44</sup>But they presumed to go up to the top of the mountain: nevertheless the ark of the covenant of Jehovah, and Moses, departed not out of the camp.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.14.45" data-parsed="Num_14_45_0_0" data-passage="Num 14.45" id="Num.14.45"/><sup>45</sup>Then the Amalekite came down, and the Canaanite who dwelt in that mountain, and smote them and beat them down, even unto Hormah.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>