<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Numbers 13</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Numbers 13</span></div><div data-next="Num.14" data-prev="Num.12" data-progress="14.28%" data-shorttitle="" id="Num.13" title="Numbers 13">
<h2 id="Num.13-p0.1">13</h2>
<p id="Num.13-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.13.1" data-parsed="Num_13_1_0_0" data-passage="Num 13.1" id="Num.13.1"/><sup>1</sup>And Jehovah spake unto Moses, saying, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.13.2" data-parsed="Num_13_2_0_0" data-passage="Num 13.2" id="Num.13.2"/><sup>2</sup>Send thou men, that they may spy out the land of Canaan, which I give unto the children of Israel: of every tribe of their fathers shall ye send a man, every one a prince among them. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.13.3" data-parsed="Num_13_3_0_0" data-passage="Num 13.3" id="Num.13.3"/><sup>3</sup>And Moses sent them from the wilderness of Paran according to the commandment of Jehovah: all of them men who were heads of the children of Israel. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.13.4" data-parsed="Num_13_4_0_0" data-passage="Num 13.4" id="Num.13.4"/><sup>4</sup>And these were their names: Of the tribe of Reuben, Shammua the son of Zaccur. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.13.5" data-parsed="Num_13_5_0_0" data-passage="Num 13.5" id="Num.13.5"/><sup>5</sup>Of the tribe of Simeon, Shaphat the son of Hori. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.13.6" data-parsed="Num_13_6_0_0" data-passage="Num 13.6" id="Num.13.6"/><sup>6</sup>Of the tribe of Judah, Caleb the son of Jephunneh. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.13.7" data-parsed="Num_13_7_0_0" data-passage="Num 13.7" id="Num.13.7"/><sup>7</sup>Of the tribe of Issachar, Igal the son of Joseph. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.13.8" data-parsed="Num_13_8_0_0" data-passage="Num 13.8" id="Num.13.8"/><sup>8</sup>Of the tribe of Ephraim,
Hoshea the son of Nun. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.13.9" data-parsed="Num_13_9_0_0" data-passage="Num 13.9" id="Num.13.9"/><sup>9</sup>Of the tribe of Benjamin, Palti the son of Raphu.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.13.10" data-parsed="Num_13_10_0_0" data-passage="Num 13.10" id="Num.13.10"/><sup>10</sup>Of the tribe of Zebulun, Gaddiel the son of Sodi. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.13.11" data-parsed="Num_13_11_0_0" data-passage="Num 13.11" id="Num.13.11"/><sup>11</sup>Of the tribe of Joseph, <i>namely</i>, of the tribe of Manasseh, Gaddi the son of Susi.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.13.12" data-parsed="Num_13_12_0_0" data-passage="Num 13.12" id="Num.13.12"/><sup>12</sup>Of the tribe of Dan, Ammiel the son of Gemalli. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.13.13" data-parsed="Num_13_13_0_0" data-passage="Num 13.13" id="Num.13.13"/><sup>13</sup>Of the tribe of Asher, Sethur the son of Michael. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.13.14" data-parsed="Num_13_14_0_0" data-passage="Num 13.14" id="Num.13.14"/><sup>14</sup>Of the tribe of Naphtali, Nahbi the son of Vophsi. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.13.15" data-parsed="Num_13_15_0_0" data-passage="Num 13.15" id="Num.13.15"/><sup>15</sup>Of the tribe of Gad, Geuel the son of Machi. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.13.16" data-parsed="Num_13_16_0_0" data-passage="Num 13.16" id="Num.13.16"/><sup>16</sup>These are the names of the men that Moses sent to spy out the land. And Moses called Hoshea the son of Nun Joshua.</p>
<p id="Num.13-p2">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.13.17" data-parsed="Num_13_17_0_0" data-passage="Num 13.17" id="Num.13.17"/><sup>17</sup>And Moses sent them to spy out the land of Canaan, and said unto them,
Get you up this way by the South, and go up into the hill-country: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.13.18" data-parsed="Num_13_18_0_0" data-passage="Num 13.18" id="Num.13.18"/><sup>18</sup>and see the land, what it is; and the people that dwell therein, whether they are strong or weak, whether they are few or many; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.13.19" data-parsed="Num_13_19_0_0" data-passage="Num 13.19" id="Num.13.19"/><sup>19</sup>and what the land is that they dwell in, whether it is good or bad; and what cities they are that they dwell in, whether in camps, or in strongholds; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.13.20" data-parsed="Num_13_20_0_0" data-passage="Num 13.20" id="Num.13.20"/><sup>20</sup>and what the land is,
whether it is fat or lean, whether there is wood therein, or not. And be ye of good courage, and bring of the fruit of the land. Now the time was the time of the first-ripe grapes.</p>
<p id="Num.13-p3">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.13.21" data-parsed="Num_13_21_0_0" data-passage="Num 13.21" id="Num.13.21"/><sup>21</sup>So they went up, and spied out the land from the wilderness of Zin unto Rehob, to the entrance of Hamath. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.13.22" data-parsed="Num_13_22_0_0" data-passage="Num 13.22" id="Num.13.22"/><sup>22</sup>And they went up by the South, and came unto Hebron; and Ahiman, Sheshai, and Talmai, the children of Anak, were there. (Now Hebron was built seven years before Zoan in Egypt.) 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.13.23" data-parsed="Num_13_23_0_0" data-passage="Num 13.23" id="Num.13.23"/><sup>23</sup>And they came unto the valley of Eshcol, and cut down from thence a branch with one cluster of grapes, and they bare it upon a staff between two; <i>they brought</i> also of the pomegranates, and of the figs. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.13.24" data-parsed="Num_13_24_0_0" data-passage="Num 13.24" id="Num.13.24"/><sup>24</sup>That place was called the valley of Eshcol, because of the cluster which the children of Israel cut down from thence.</p>
<p id="Num.13-p4">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.13.25" data-parsed="Num_13_25_0_0" data-passage="Num 13.25" id="Num.13.25"/><sup>25</sup>And they returned from spying out the land at the end of forty days.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.13.26" data-parsed="Num_13_26_0_0" data-passage="Num 13.26" id="Num.13.26"/><sup>26</sup>And they went and came to Moses, and to Aaron, and to all the congregation of the children of Israel, unto the wilderness of Paran, to Kadesh; and brought back word unto them, and unto all the congregation, and showed them the fruit of the land. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.13.27" data-parsed="Num_13_27_0_0" data-passage="Num 13.27" id="Num.13.27"/><sup>27</sup>And they told him, and said, We came unto the land whither thou sentest us; and surely it floweth with milk and honey; and this is the fruit of it. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.13.28" data-parsed="Num_13_28_0_0" data-passage="Num 13.28" id="Num.13.28"/><sup>28</sup>Howbeit the people that dwell in the land are strong, and the cities are fortified, <i>and</i> very great:
and moreover we saw the children of Anak there. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.13.29" data-parsed="Num_13_29_0_0" data-passage="Num 13.29" id="Num.13.29"/><sup>29</sup>Amalek dwelleth in the land of the South: and the Hittite, and the Jebusite, and the Amorite, dwell in the hill-country; and the Canaanite dwelleth by the sea, and along by the side of the Jordan.</p>
<p id="Num.13-p5">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.13.30" data-parsed="Num_13_30_0_0" data-passage="Num 13.30" id="Num.13.30"/><sup>30</sup>And Caleb stilled the people before Moses, and said, Let us go up at once, and possess it; for we are well able to overcome it. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.13.31" data-parsed="Num_13_31_0_0" data-passage="Num 13.31" id="Num.13.31"/><sup>31</sup>But the men that went up with him said, We are not able to go up against the people; for they are stronger than we. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.13.32" data-parsed="Num_13_32_0_0" data-passage="Num 13.32" id="Num.13.32"/><sup>32</sup>And they brought up an evil report of the land which they had spied out unto the children of Israel, saying, The land,
through which we have gone to spy it out, is a land that eateth up the inhabitants thereof; and all the people that we saw in it are men of great stature. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.13.33" data-parsed="Num_13_33_0_0" data-passage="Num 13.33" id="Num.13.33"/><sup>33</sup>And there we saw the Nephilim, the sons of Anak, who come of the Nephilim: and we were in our own sight as grasshoppers, and so we were in their sight.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>