<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Numbers 18</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Numbers 18</span></div><div data-next="Num.19" data-prev="Num.17" data-progress="14.87%" data-shorttitle="" id="Num.18" title="Numbers 18">
<h2 id="Num.18-p0.1">18</h2>
<p id="Num.18-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.18.1" data-parsed="Num_18_1_0_0" data-passage="Num 18.1" id="Num.18.1"/><sup>1</sup>And Jehovah said unto Aaron, Thou and thy sons and thy fathers'
house with thee shall bear the iniquity of the sanctuary; and thou and thy sons with thee shall bear the iniquity of your priesthood. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.18.2" data-parsed="Num_18_2_0_0" data-passage="Num 18.2" id="Num.18.2"/><sup>2</sup>And thy brethren also, the tribe of Levi, the tribe of thy father, bring thou near with thee, that they may be joined unto thee, and minister unto thee: but thou and thy sons with thee shall be before the tent of the testimony.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.18.3" data-parsed="Num_18_3_0_0" data-passage="Num 18.3" id="Num.18.3"/><sup>3</sup>And they shall keep thy charge, and the charge of all the Tent: only they shall not come nigh unto the vessels of the sanctuary and unto the altar, that they die not, neither they, nor ye. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.18.4" data-parsed="Num_18_4_0_0" data-passage="Num 18.4" id="Num.18.4"/><sup>4</sup>And they shall be joined unto thee, and keep the charge of the tent of meeting, for all the service of the Tent: and a stranger shall not come nigh unto you. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.18.5" data-parsed="Num_18_5_0_0" data-passage="Num 18.5" id="Num.18.5"/><sup>5</sup>And ye shall keep the charge of the sanctuary, and the charge of the altar; that there be wrath no more upon the children of Israel. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.18.6" data-parsed="Num_18_6_0_0" data-passage="Num 18.6" id="Num.18.6"/><sup>6</sup>And I, behold, I have taken your brethren the Levites from among the children of Israel: to you they are a gift, given unto Jehovah, to do the service of the tent of meeting. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.18.7" data-parsed="Num_18_7_0_0" data-passage="Num 18.7" id="Num.18.7"/><sup>7</sup>And thou and thy sons with thee shall keep your priesthood for everything of the altar, and for that within the veil; and ye shall serve: I give you the priesthood as a service of gift: and the stranger that cometh nigh shall be put to death.</p>
<p id="Num.18-p2">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.18.8" data-parsed="Num_18_8_0_0" data-passage="Num 18.8" id="Num.18.8"/><sup>8</sup>And Jehovah spake unto Aaron, And I, behold, I have given thee the charge of my heave-offerings, even all the hallowed things of the children of Israel; unto thee have I given them by reason of the anointing, and to thy sons, as a portion for ever. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.18.9" data-parsed="Num_18_9_0_0" data-passage="Num 18.9" id="Num.18.9"/><sup>9</sup>This shall be thine of the most holy things, <i>reserved</i> from the fire: every oblation of theirs, even every meal-offering of theirs, and every sin-offering of theirs, and every trespass-offering of theirs, which they shall render unto me, shall be most holy for thee and for thy sons. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.18.10" data-parsed="Num_18_10_0_0" data-passage="Num 18.10" id="Num.18.10"/><sup>10</sup>As the most holy things shalt thou eat thereof; every male shall eat thereof: it shall be holy unto thee. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.18.11" data-parsed="Num_18_11_0_0" data-passage="Num 18.11" id="Num.18.11"/><sup>11</sup>And this is thine: the heave-offering of their gift, even all the wave-offerings of the children of Israel; I have given them unto thee, and to thy sons and to thy daughters with thee, as a portion for ever; every one that is clean in thy house shall eat thereof. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.18.12" data-parsed="Num_18_12_0_0" data-passage="Num 18.12" id="Num.18.12"/><sup>12</sup>All the best of the oil, and all the best of the vintage, and of the grain, the first-fruits of them which they give unto Jehovah, to thee have I given them. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.18.13" data-parsed="Num_18_13_0_0" data-passage="Num 18.13" id="Num.18.13"/><sup>13</sup>The first-ripe fruits of all that is in their land, which they bring unto Jehovah, shall be thine; every one that is clean in thy house shall eat thereof. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.18.14" data-parsed="Num_18_14_0_0" data-passage="Num 18.14" id="Num.18.14"/><sup>14</sup>Everything devoted in Israel shall be thine. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.18.15" data-parsed="Num_18_15_0_0" data-passage="Num 18.15" id="Num.18.15"/><sup>15</sup>Everything that openeth the womb, of all flesh which they offer unto Jehovah, both of man and beast shall be thine:
nevertheless the first-born of man shalt thou surely redeem, and the firstling of unclean beasts shalt thou redeem. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.18.16" data-parsed="Num_18_16_0_0" data-passage="Num 18.16" id="Num.18.16"/><sup>16</sup>And those that are to be redeemed of them from a month old shalt thou redeem, according to thine estimation, for the money of five shekels, after the shekel of the sanctuary
(the same is twenty gerahs). 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.18.17" data-parsed="Num_18_17_0_0" data-passage="Num 18.17" id="Num.18.17"/><sup>17</sup>But the firstling of a cow, or the firstling of a sheep, or the firstling of a goat, thou shalt not redeem; they are holy: thou shalt sprinkle their blood upon the altar, and shalt burn their fat for an offering made by fire, for a sweet savor unto Jehovah.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.18.18" data-parsed="Num_18_18_0_0" data-passage="Num 18.18" id="Num.18.18"/><sup>18</sup>And the flesh of them shall be thine, as the wave-breast and as the right thigh, it shall be thine. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.18.19" data-parsed="Num_18_19_0_0" data-passage="Num 18.19" id="Num.18.19"/><sup>19</sup>All the heave-offerings of the holy things, which the children of Israel offer unto Jehovah, have I given thee,
and thy sons and thy daughters with thee, as a portion for ever: it is a covenant of salt for ever before Jehovah unto thee and to thy seed with thee.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.18.20" data-parsed="Num_18_20_0_0" data-passage="Num 18.20" id="Num.18.20"/><sup>20</sup>And Jehovah said unto Aaron, Thou shalt have no inheritance in their land, neither shalt thou have any portion among them: I am thy portion and thine inheritance among the children of Israel.</p>
<p id="Num.18-p3">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.18.21" data-parsed="Num_18_21_0_0" data-passage="Num 18.21" id="Num.18.21"/><sup>21</sup>And unto the children of Levi, behold, I have given all the tithe in Israel for an inheritance, in return for their service which they serve, even the service of the tent of meeting. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.18.22" data-parsed="Num_18_22_0_0" data-passage="Num 18.22" id="Num.18.22"/><sup>22</sup>And henceforth the children of Israel shall not come nigh the tent of meeting, lest they bear sin, and die.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.18.23" data-parsed="Num_18_23_0_0" data-passage="Num 18.23" id="Num.18.23"/><sup>23</sup>But the Levites shall do the service of the tent of meeting, and they shall bear their iniquity: it shall be a statute for ever throughout your generations; and among the children of Israel they shall have no inheritance.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.18.24" data-parsed="Num_18_24_0_0" data-passage="Num 18.24" id="Num.18.24"/><sup>24</sup>For the tithe of the children of Israel, which they offer as a heave-offering unto Jehovah, I have given to the Levites for an inheritance:
therefore I have said unto them, Among the children of Israel they shall have no inheritance.</p>
<p id="Num.18-p4">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.18.25" data-parsed="Num_18_25_0_0" data-passage="Num 18.25" id="Num.18.25"/><sup>25</sup>And Jehovah spake unto Moses, saying, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.18.26" data-parsed="Num_18_26_0_0" data-passage="Num 18.26" id="Num.18.26"/><sup>26</sup>Moreover thou shalt speak unto the Levites, and say unto them, When ye take of the children of Israel the tithe which I have given you from them for your inheritance, then ye shall offer up a heave-offering of it for Jehovah, a tithe of the tithe.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.18.27" data-parsed="Num_18_27_0_0" data-passage="Num 18.27" id="Num.18.27"/><sup>27</sup>And your heave-offering shall be reckoned unto you, as though it were the grain of the threshing-floor, and as the fulness of the winepress.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.18.28" data-parsed="Num_18_28_0_0" data-passage="Num 18.28" id="Num.18.28"/><sup>28</sup>Thus ye also shall offer a heave-offering unto Jehovah of all your tithes, which ye receive of the children of Israel; and thereof ye shall give Jehovah's heave-offering to Aaron the priest. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.18.29" data-parsed="Num_18_29_0_0" data-passage="Num 18.29" id="Num.18.29"/><sup>29</sup>Out of all your gifts ye shall offer every heave-offering of Jehovah, of all the best thereof, even the hallowed part thereof out of it. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.18.30" data-parsed="Num_18_30_0_0" data-passage="Num 18.30" id="Num.18.30"/><sup>30</sup>Therefore thou shalt say unto them, When ye heave the best thereof from it, then it shall be reckoned unto the Levites as the increase of the threshing-floor, and as the increase of the wine-press. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.18.31" data-parsed="Num_18_31_0_0" data-passage="Num 18.31" id="Num.18.31"/><sup>31</sup>And ye shall eat it in every place, ye and your households: for it is your reward in return for your service in the tent of meeting. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.18.32" data-parsed="Num_18_32_0_0" data-passage="Num 18.32" id="Num.18.32"/><sup>32</sup>And ye shall bear no sin by reason of it, when ye have heaved from it the best thereof: and ye shall not profane the holy things of the children of Israel, that ye die not.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>