<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Numbers 17</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Numbers 17</span></div><div data-next="Num.18" data-prev="Num.16" data-progress="14.82%" data-shorttitle="" id="Num.17" title="Numbers 17">
<h2 id="Num.17-p0.1">17</h2>
<p id="Num.17-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.17.1" data-parsed="Num_17_1_0_0" data-passage="Num 17.1" id="Num.17.1"/><sup>1</sup>And Jehovah spake unto Moses, saying, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.17.2" data-parsed="Num_17_2_0_0" data-passage="Num 17.2" id="Num.17.2"/><sup>2</sup>Speak unto the children of Israel, and take of them rods, one for each fathers' house, of all their princes according to their fathers' houses, twelve rods: write thou every man's name upon his rod. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.17.3" data-parsed="Num_17_3_0_0" data-passage="Num 17.3" id="Num.17.3"/><sup>3</sup>And thou shalt write Aaron's name upon the rod of Levi; for there shall be one rod for each head of their fathers' houses.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.17.4" data-parsed="Num_17_4_0_0" data-passage="Num 17.4" id="Num.17.4"/><sup>4</sup>And thou shalt lay them up in the tent of meeting before the testimony,
where I meet with you. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.17.5" data-parsed="Num_17_5_0_0" data-passage="Num 17.5" id="Num.17.5"/><sup>5</sup>And it shall come to pass, that the rod of the man whom I shall choose shall bud: and I will make to cease from me the murmurings of the children of Israel, which they murmur against you. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.17.6" data-parsed="Num_17_6_0_0" data-passage="Num 17.6" id="Num.17.6"/><sup>6</sup>And Moses spake unto the children of Israel; and all their princes gave him rods,
for each prince one, according to their fathers' houses, even twelve rods:
and the rod of Aaron was among their rods. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.17.7" data-parsed="Num_17_7_0_0" data-passage="Num 17.7" id="Num.17.7"/><sup>7</sup>And Moses laid up the rods before Jehovah in the tent of the testimony.</p>
<p id="Num.17-p2">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.17.8" data-parsed="Num_17_8_0_0" data-passage="Num 17.8" id="Num.17.8"/><sup>8</sup>And it came to pass on the morrow, that Moses went into the tent of the testimony; and, behold, the rod of Aaron for the house of Levi was budded,
and put forth buds, and produced blossoms, and bare ripe almonds. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.17.9" data-parsed="Num_17_9_0_0" data-passage="Num 17.9" id="Num.17.9"/><sup>9</sup>And Moses brought out all the rods from before Jehovah unto all the children of Israel: and they looked, and took every man his rod. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.17.10" data-parsed="Num_17_10_0_0" data-passage="Num 17.10" id="Num.17.10"/><sup>10</sup>And Jehovah said unto Moses, Put back the rod of Aaron before the testimony, to be kept for a token against the children of rebellion; that thou mayest make an end of their murmurings against me, that they die not. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.17.11" data-parsed="Num_17_11_0_0" data-passage="Num 17.11" id="Num.17.11"/><sup>11</sup>Thus did Moses: as Jehovah commanded him, so did he.</p>
<p id="Num.17-p3">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.17.12" data-parsed="Num_17_12_0_0" data-passage="Num 17.12" id="Num.17.12"/><sup>12</sup>And the children of Israel spake unto Moses, saying, Behold, we perish,
we are undone, we are all undone. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.17.13" data-parsed="Num_17_13_0_0" data-passage="Num 17.13" id="Num.17.13"/><sup>13</sup>Every one that cometh near, that cometh near unto the tabernacle of Jehovah, dieth: shall we perish all of us?</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>