<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Numbers 28</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Numbers 28</span></div><div data-next="Num.29" data-prev="Num.27" data-progress="15.94%" data-shorttitle="" id="Num.28" title="Numbers 28">
<h2 id="Num.28-p0.1">28</h2>
<p id="Num.28-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.28.1" data-parsed="Num_28_1_0_0" data-passage="Num 28.1" id="Num.28.1"/><sup>1</sup>And Jehovah spake unto Moses, saying, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.28.2" data-parsed="Num_28_2_0_0" data-passage="Num 28.2" id="Num.28.2"/><sup>2</sup>Command the children of Israel, and say unto them, My oblation, my food for my offerings made by fire, of a sweet savor unto me, shall ye observe to offer unto me in their due season. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.28.3" data-parsed="Num_28_3_0_0" data-passage="Num 28.3" id="Num.28.3"/><sup>3</sup>And thou shalt say unto them, This is the offering made by fire which ye shall offer unto Jehovah: he-lambs a year old without blemish,
two day by day, for a continual burnt-offering. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.28.4" data-parsed="Num_28_4_0_0" data-passage="Num 28.4" id="Num.28.4"/><sup>4</sup>The one lamb shalt thou offer in the morning, and the other lamb shalt thou offer at even; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.28.5" data-parsed="Num_28_5_0_0" data-passage="Num 28.5" id="Num.28.5"/><sup>5</sup>and the tenth part of an ephah of fine flour for a meal-offering, mingled with the fourth part of a hin of beaten oil. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.28.6" data-parsed="Num_28_6_0_0" data-passage="Num 28.6" id="Num.28.6"/><sup>6</sup>It is a continual burnt-offering, which was ordained in mount Sinai for a sweet savor, an offering made by fire unto Jehovah. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.28.7" data-parsed="Num_28_7_0_0" data-passage="Num 28.7" id="Num.28.7"/><sup>7</sup>And the drink-offering thereof shall be the fourth part of a hin for the one lamb: in the holy place shalt thou pour out a drink-offering of strong drink unto Jehovah. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.28.8" data-parsed="Num_28_8_0_0" data-passage="Num 28.8" id="Num.28.8"/><sup>8</sup>And the other lamb shalt thou offer at even: as the meal-offering of the morning, and as the drink-offering thereof, thou shalt offer it, an offering made by fire, of a sweet savor unto Jehovah.</p>
<p id="Num.28-p2">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.28.9" data-parsed="Num_28_9_0_0" data-passage="Num 28.9" id="Num.28.9"/><sup>9</sup>And on the sabbath day two he-lambs a year old without blemish, and two tenth parts <i>of an ephah</i> of fine flour for a meal-offering, mingled with oil, and the drink-offering thereof: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.28.10" data-parsed="Num_28_10_0_0" data-passage="Num 28.10" id="Num.28.10"/><sup>10</sup>this is the burnt-offering of every sabbath, besides the continual burnt-offering, and the drink-offering thereof.</p>
<p id="Num.28-p3">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.28.11" data-parsed="Num_28_11_0_0" data-passage="Num 28.11" id="Num.28.11"/><sup>11</sup>And in the beginnings of your months ye shall offer a burnt-offering unto Jehovah: two young bullocks, and one ram, seven he-lambs a year old without blemish; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.28.12" data-parsed="Num_28_12_0_0" data-passage="Num 28.12" id="Num.28.12"/><sup>12</sup>and three tenth parts <i>of an ephah</i> of fine flour for a meal-offering, mingled with oil, for each bullock; and two tenth parts of fine flour for a meal-offering, mingled with oil, for the one ram;

<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.28.13" data-parsed="Num_28_13_0_0" data-passage="Num 28.13" id="Num.28.13"/><sup>13</sup>and a tenth part of fine flour mingled with oil for a meal-offering unto every lamb; for a burnt-offering of a sweet savor, an offering made by fire unto Jehovah. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.28.14" data-parsed="Num_28_14_0_0" data-passage="Num 28.14" id="Num.28.14"/><sup>14</sup>And their drink-offerings shall be half a hin of wine for a bullock, and the third part of a hin for the ram, and the fourth part of a hin for a lamb: this is the burnt-offering of every month throughout the months of the year. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.28.15" data-parsed="Num_28_15_0_0" data-passage="Num 28.15" id="Num.28.15"/><sup>15</sup>And one he-goat for a sin-offering unto Jehovah; it shall be offered besides the continual burnt-offering, and the drink-offering thereof.</p>
<p id="Num.28-p4">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.28.16" data-parsed="Num_28_16_0_0" data-passage="Num 28.16" id="Num.28.16"/><sup>16</sup>And in the first month, on the fourteenth day of the month, is Jehovah's passover. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.28.17" data-parsed="Num_28_17_0_0" data-passage="Num 28.17" id="Num.28.17"/><sup>17</sup>And on the fifteenth day of this month shall be a feast: seven days shall unleavened bread be eaten. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.28.18" data-parsed="Num_28_18_0_0" data-passage="Num 28.18" id="Num.28.18"/><sup>18</sup>In the first day shall be a holy convocation: ye shall do no servile work; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.28.19" data-parsed="Num_28_19_0_0" data-passage="Num 28.19" id="Num.28.19"/><sup>19</sup>but ye shall offer an offering made by fire, a burnt-offering unto Jehovah: two young bullocks, and one ram, and seven he-lambs a year old; they shall be unto you without blemish; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.28.20" data-parsed="Num_28_20_0_0" data-passage="Num 28.20" id="Num.28.20"/><sup>20</sup>and their meal-offering, fine flour mingled with oil:
three tenth parts shall ye offer for a bullock, and two tenth parts for the ram; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.28.21" data-parsed="Num_28_21_0_0" data-passage="Num 28.21" id="Num.28.21"/><sup>21</sup>a tenth part shalt thou offer for every lamb of the seven lambs;

<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.28.22" data-parsed="Num_28_22_0_0" data-passage="Num 28.22" id="Num.28.22"/><sup>22</sup>and one he-goat for a sin-offering, to make atonement for you. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.28.23" data-parsed="Num_28_23_0_0" data-passage="Num 28.23" id="Num.28.23"/><sup>23</sup>Ye shall offer these besides the burnt-offering of the morning, which is for a continual burnt-offering. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.28.24" data-parsed="Num_28_24_0_0" data-passage="Num 28.24" id="Num.28.24"/><sup>24</sup>After this manner ye shall offer daily, for seven days, the food of the offering made by fire, of a sweet savor unto Jehovah: it shall be offered besides the continual burnt-offering, and the drink-offering thereof. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.28.25" data-parsed="Num_28_25_0_0" data-passage="Num 28.25" id="Num.28.25"/><sup>25</sup>And on the seventh day ye shall have a holy convocation: ye shall do no servile work.</p>
<p id="Num.28-p5">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.28.26" data-parsed="Num_28_26_0_0" data-passage="Num 28.26" id="Num.28.26"/><sup>26</sup>Also in the day of the first-fruits, when ye offer a new meal-offering unto Jehovah in your <i>feast of</i> weeks, ye shall have a holy convocation; ye shall do no servile work; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.28.27" data-parsed="Num_28_27_0_0" data-passage="Num 28.27" id="Num.28.27"/><sup>27</sup>but ye shall offer a burnt-offering for a sweet savor unto Jehovah: two young bullocks, one ram,
seven he-lambs a year old; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.28.28" data-parsed="Num_28_28_0_0" data-passage="Num 28.28" id="Num.28.28"/><sup>28</sup>and their meal-offering, fine flour mingled with oil, three tenth parts for each bullock, two tenth parts for the one ram, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.28.29" data-parsed="Num_28_29_0_0" data-passage="Num 28.29" id="Num.28.29"/><sup>29</sup>a tenth part for every lamb of the seven lambs; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.28.30" data-parsed="Num_28_30_0_0" data-passage="Num 28.30" id="Num.28.30"/><sup>30</sup>one he-goat,
to make atonement for you. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.28.31" data-parsed="Num_28_31_0_0" data-passage="Num 28.31" id="Num.28.31"/><sup>31</sup>Besides the continual burnt-offering, and the meal-offering thereof, ye shall offer them (they shall be unto you without blemish), and their drink-offerings.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>