<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Numbers 26</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Numbers 26</span></div><div data-next="Num.27" data-prev="Num.25" data-progress="15.67%" data-shorttitle="" id="Num.26" title="Numbers 26">
<h2 id="Num.26-p0.1">26</h2>
<p id="Num.26-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.26.1" data-parsed="Num_26_1_0_0" data-passage="Num 26.1" id="Num.26.1"/><sup>1</sup>And it came to pass after the plague, that Jehovah spake unto Moses and unto Eleazar the son of Aaron the priest, saying, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.26.2" data-parsed="Num_26_2_0_0" data-passage="Num 26.2" id="Num.26.2"/><sup>2</sup>Take the sum of all the congregation of the children of Israel, from twenty years old and upward, by their fathers' houses, all that are able to go forth to war in Israel. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.26.3" data-parsed="Num_26_3_0_0" data-passage="Num 26.3" id="Num.26.3"/><sup>3</sup>And Moses and Eleazar the priest spake with them in the plains of Moab by the Jordan at Jericho, saying, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.26.4" data-parsed="Num_26_4_0_0" data-passage="Num 26.4" id="Num.26.4"/><sup>4</sup><i>Take the sum of the people</i>, from twenty years old and upward; as Jehovah commanded Moses and the children of Israel, that came forth out of the land of Egypt.</p>
<p id="Num.26-p2">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.26.5" data-parsed="Num_26_5_0_0" data-passage="Num 26.5" id="Num.26.5"/><sup>5</sup>Reuben, the first-born of Israel; the sons of Reuben: <i>of</i> Hanoch,
the family of the Hanochites; of Pallu, the family of the Palluites; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.26.6" data-parsed="Num_26_6_0_0" data-passage="Num 26.6" id="Num.26.6"/><sup>6</sup>of Hezron, the family of the Hezronites; of Carmi, the family of the Carmites.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.26.7" data-parsed="Num_26_7_0_0" data-passage="Num 26.7" id="Num.26.7"/><sup>7</sup>These are the families of the Reubenites; and they that were numbered of them were forty and three thousand and seven hundred and thirty. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.26.8" data-parsed="Num_26_8_0_0" data-passage="Num 26.8" id="Num.26.8"/><sup>8</sup>And the sons of Pallu: Eliab. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.26.9" data-parsed="Num_26_9_0_0" data-passage="Num 26.9" id="Num.26.9"/><sup>9</sup>And the sons of Eliab: Nemuel, and Dathan, and Abiram. These are that Dathan and Abiram, who were called of the congregation, who strove against Moses and against Aaron in the company of Korah, when they strove against Jehovah, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.26.10" data-parsed="Num_26_10_0_0" data-passage="Num 26.10" id="Num.26.10"/><sup>10</sup>and the earth opened its mouth, and swallowed them up together with Korah, when that company died;
what time the fire devoured two hundred and fifty men, and they became a sign. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.26.11" data-parsed="Num_26_11_0_0" data-passage="Num 26.11" id="Num.26.11"/><sup>11</sup>Notwithstanding, the sons of Korah died not.</p>
<p id="Num.26-p3">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.26.12" data-parsed="Num_26_12_0_0" data-passage="Num 26.12" id="Num.26.12"/><sup>12</sup>The sons of Simeon after their families: of Nemuel, the family of the Nemuelites; of Jamin, the family of the Jaminites; of Jachin, the family of the Jachinites; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.26.13" data-parsed="Num_26_13_0_0" data-passage="Num 26.13" id="Num.26.13"/><sup>13</sup>of Zerah, the family of the Zerahites; of Shaul, the family of the Shaulites. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.26.14" data-parsed="Num_26_14_0_0" data-passage="Num 26.14" id="Num.26.14"/><sup>14</sup>These are the families of the Simeonites,
twenty and two thousand and two hundred.</p>
<p id="Num.26-p4">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.26.15" data-parsed="Num_26_15_0_0" data-passage="Num 26.15" id="Num.26.15"/><sup>15</sup>The sons of Gad after their families: of Zephon, the family of the Zephonites; of Haggi, the family of the Haggites; of Shuni, the family of the Shunites; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.26.16" data-parsed="Num_26_16_0_0" data-passage="Num 26.16" id="Num.26.16"/><sup>16</sup>of Ozni, the family of the Oznites; of Eri, the family of the Erites; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.26.17" data-parsed="Num_26_17_0_0" data-passage="Num 26.17" id="Num.26.17"/><sup>17</sup>of Arod, the family of the Arodites; of Areli, the family of the Arelites. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.26.18" data-parsed="Num_26_18_0_0" data-passage="Num 26.18" id="Num.26.18"/><sup>18</sup>These are the families of the sons of Gad according to those that were numbered of them, forty thousand and five hundred.</p>
<p id="Num.26-p5">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.26.19" data-parsed="Num_26_19_0_0" data-passage="Num 26.19" id="Num.26.19"/><sup>19</sup>The sons of Judah: Er and Onan; and Er and Onan died in the land of Canaan. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.26.20" data-parsed="Num_26_20_0_0" data-passage="Num 26.20" id="Num.26.20"/><sup>20</sup>And the sons of Judah after their families were: of Shelah, the family of the Shelanites; of Perez, the family of the Perezites; of Zerah,
the family of the Zerahites. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.26.21" data-parsed="Num_26_21_0_0" data-passage="Num 26.21" id="Num.26.21"/><sup>21</sup>And the sons of Perez were: of Hezron, the family of the Hezronites; of Hamul, the family of the Hamulites. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.26.22" data-parsed="Num_26_22_0_0" data-passage="Num 26.22" id="Num.26.22"/><sup>22</sup>These are the families of Judah according to those that were numbered of them,
threescore and sixteen thousand and five hundred.</p>
<p id="Num.26-p6">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.26.23" data-parsed="Num_26_23_0_0" data-passage="Num 26.23" id="Num.26.23"/><sup>23</sup>The sons of Issachar after their families: <i>of</i> Tola, the family of the Tolaites; of Puvah, the family of the Punites; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.26.24" data-parsed="Num_26_24_0_0" data-passage="Num 26.24" id="Num.26.24"/><sup>24</sup>of Jashub, the family of the Jashubites; of Shimron, the family of the Shimronites.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.26.25" data-parsed="Num_26_25_0_0" data-passage="Num 26.25" id="Num.26.25"/><sup>25</sup>These are the families of Issachar according to those that were numbered of them, threescore and four thousand and three hundred.</p>
<p id="Num.26-p7">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.26.26" data-parsed="Num_26_26_0_0" data-passage="Num 26.26" id="Num.26.26"/><sup>26</sup>The sons of Zebulun after their families: of Sered, the family of the Seredites; of Elon, the family of the Elonites; of Jahleel, the family of the Jahleelites. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.26.27" data-parsed="Num_26_27_0_0" data-passage="Num 26.27" id="Num.26.27"/><sup>27</sup>These are the families of the Zebulunites according to those that were numbered of them, threescore thousand and five hundred.</p>
<p id="Num.26-p8">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.26.28" data-parsed="Num_26_28_0_0" data-passage="Num 26.28" id="Num.26.28"/><sup>28</sup>The sons of Joseph after their families: Manasseh and Ephraim.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.26.29" data-parsed="Num_26_29_0_0" data-passage="Num 26.29" id="Num.26.29"/><sup>29</sup>The sons of Manasseh: of Machir, the family of the Machirites; and Machir begat Gilead; of Gilead, the family of the Gileadites. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.26.30" data-parsed="Num_26_30_0_0" data-passage="Num 26.30" id="Num.26.30"/><sup>30</sup>These are the sons of Gilead: <i>of</i> Iezer, the family of the Iezerites; of Helek,
the family of the Helekites; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.26.31" data-parsed="Num_26_31_0_0" data-passage="Num 26.31" id="Num.26.31"/><sup>31</sup>and <i>of</i> Asriel, the family of the Asrielites; and <i>of</i> Shechem, the family of the Shechemites; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.26.32" data-parsed="Num_26_32_0_0" data-passage="Num 26.32" id="Num.26.32"/><sup>32</sup>and <i>of</i> Shemida, the family of the Shemidaites; and <i>of</i> Hepher, the family of the Hepherites. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.26.33" data-parsed="Num_26_33_0_0" data-passage="Num 26.33" id="Num.26.33"/><sup>33</sup>And Zelophehad the son of Hepher had no sons,
but daughters: and the names of the daughters of Zelophehad were Mahlah, and Noah, Hoglah, Milcah, and Tirzah. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.26.34" data-parsed="Num_26_34_0_0" data-passage="Num 26.34" id="Num.26.34"/><sup>34</sup>These are the families of Manasseh;
and they that were numbered of them were fifty and two thousand and seven hundred.</p>
<p id="Num.26-p9">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.26.35" data-parsed="Num_26_35_0_0" data-passage="Num 26.35" id="Num.26.35"/><sup>35</sup>These are the sons of Ephraim after their families: of Shuthelah, the family of the Shuthelahites; of Becher, the family of the Becherites; of Tahan, the family of the Tahanites. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.26.36" data-parsed="Num_26_36_0_0" data-passage="Num 26.36" id="Num.26.36"/><sup>36</sup>And these are the sons of Shuthelah: of Eran, the family of the Eranites. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.26.37" data-parsed="Num_26_37_0_0" data-passage="Num 26.37" id="Num.26.37"/><sup>37</sup>These are the families of the sons of Ephraim according to those that were numbered of them, thirty and two thousand and five hundred. These are the sons of Joseph after their families.</p>
<p id="Num.26-p10">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.26.38" data-parsed="Num_26_38_0_0" data-passage="Num 26.38" id="Num.26.38"/><sup>38</sup>The sons of Benjamin after their families: of Bela, the family of the Belaites; of Ashbel, the family of the Ashbelites; of Ahiram, the family of the Ahiramites; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.26.39" data-parsed="Num_26_39_0_0" data-passage="Num 26.39" id="Num.26.39"/><sup>39</sup>of Shephupham, the family of the Shuphamites; of Hupham, the family of the Huphamites. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.26.40" data-parsed="Num_26_40_0_0" data-passage="Num 26.40" id="Num.26.40"/><sup>40</sup>And the sons of Bela were Ard and Naaman: <i>of Ard</i>, the family of the Ardites; of Naaman, the family of the Naamites. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.26.41" data-parsed="Num_26_41_0_0" data-passage="Num 26.41" id="Num.26.41"/><sup>41</sup>These are the sons of Benjamin after their families; and they that were numbered of them were forty and five thousand and six hundred.</p>
<p id="Num.26-p11">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.26.42" data-parsed="Num_26_42_0_0" data-passage="Num 26.42" id="Num.26.42"/><sup>42</sup>These are the sons of Dan after their families: of Shuham, the family of the Shuhamites. These are the families of Dan after their families.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.26.43" data-parsed="Num_26_43_0_0" data-passage="Num 26.43" id="Num.26.43"/><sup>43</sup>All the families of the Shuhamites, according to those that were numbered of them, were threescore and four thousand and four hundred.</p>
<p id="Num.26-p12">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.26.44" data-parsed="Num_26_44_0_0" data-passage="Num 26.44" id="Num.26.44"/><sup>44</sup>The sons of Asher after their families: of Imnah, the family of the Imnites; of Ishvi, the family of the Ishvites; of Beriah, the family of the Berites. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.26.45" data-parsed="Num_26_45_0_0" data-passage="Num 26.45" id="Num.26.45"/><sup>45</sup>Of the sons of Beriah: of Heber, the family of the Heberites;
of Malchiel, the family of the Malchielites. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.26.46" data-parsed="Num_26_46_0_0" data-passage="Num 26.46" id="Num.26.46"/><sup>46</sup>And the name of the daughter of Asher was Serah. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.26.47" data-parsed="Num_26_47_0_0" data-passage="Num 26.47" id="Num.26.47"/><sup>47</sup>These are the families of the sons of Asher according to those that were numbered of them, fifty and three thousand and four hundred.</p>
<p id="Num.26-p13">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.26.48" data-parsed="Num_26_48_0_0" data-passage="Num 26.48" id="Num.26.48"/><sup>48</sup>The sons of Naphtali after their families: of Jahzeel, the family of the Jahzeelites; of Guni, the family of the Gunites; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.26.49" data-parsed="Num_26_49_0_0" data-passage="Num 26.49" id="Num.26.49"/><sup>49</sup>of Jezer, the family of the Jezerites; of Shillem, the family of the Shillemites.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.26.50" data-parsed="Num_26_50_0_0" data-passage="Num 26.50" id="Num.26.50"/><sup>50</sup>These are the families of Naphtali according to their families; and they that were numbered of them were forty and five thousand and four hundred.</p>
<p id="Num.26-p14">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.26.51" data-parsed="Num_26_51_0_0" data-passage="Num 26.51" id="Num.26.51"/><sup>51</sup>These are they that were numbered of the children of Israel, six hundred thousand and a thousand seven hundred and thirty.</p>
<p id="Num.26-p15">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.26.52" data-parsed="Num_26_52_0_0" data-passage="Num 26.52" id="Num.26.52"/><sup>52</sup>And Jehovah spake unto Moses, saying, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.26.53" data-parsed="Num_26_53_0_0" data-passage="Num 26.53" id="Num.26.53"/><sup>53</sup>Unto these the land shall be divided for an inheritance according to the number of names. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.26.54" data-parsed="Num_26_54_0_0" data-passage="Num 26.54" id="Num.26.54"/><sup>54</sup>To the more thou shalt give the more inheritance, and to the fewer thou shalt give the less inheritance: to every one according to those that were numbered of him shall his inheritance be given. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.26.55" data-parsed="Num_26_55_0_0" data-passage="Num 26.55" id="Num.26.55"/><sup>55</sup>Notwithstanding, the land shall be divided by lot: according to the names of the tribes of their fathers they shall inherit. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.26.56" data-parsed="Num_26_56_0_0" data-passage="Num 26.56" id="Num.26.56"/><sup>56</sup>According to the lot shall their inheritance be divided between the more and the fewer.</p>
<p id="Num.26-p16">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.26.57" data-parsed="Num_26_57_0_0" data-passage="Num 26.57" id="Num.26.57"/><sup>57</sup>And these are they that were numbered of the Levites after their families: of Gershon, the family of the Gershonites; of Kohath, the family of the Kohathites; of Merari, the family of the Merarites. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.26.58" data-parsed="Num_26_58_0_0" data-passage="Num 26.58" id="Num.26.58"/><sup>58</sup>These are the families of Levi: the family of the Libnites, the family of the Hebronites,
the family of the Mahlites, the family of the Mushites, the family of the Korahites. And Kohath begat Amram. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.26.59" data-parsed="Num_26_59_0_0" data-passage="Num 26.59" id="Num.26.59"/><sup>59</sup>And the name of Amram's wife was Jochebed, the daughter of Levi, who was born to Levi in Egypt: and she bare unto Amram Aaron and Moses, and Miriam their sister. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.26.60" data-parsed="Num_26_60_0_0" data-passage="Num 26.60" id="Num.26.60"/><sup>60</sup>And unto Aaron were born Nadab and Abihu, Eleazar and Ithamar. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.26.61" data-parsed="Num_26_61_0_0" data-passage="Num 26.61" id="Num.26.61"/><sup>61</sup>And Nadab and Abihu died, when they offered strange fire before Jehovah. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.26.62" data-parsed="Num_26_62_0_0" data-passage="Num 26.62" id="Num.26.62"/><sup>62</sup>And they that were numbered of them were twenty and three thousand, every male from a month old and upward: for they were not numbered among the children of Israel, because there was no inheritance given them among the children of Israel.</p>
<p id="Num.26-p17">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.26.63" data-parsed="Num_26_63_0_0" data-passage="Num 26.63" id="Num.26.63"/><sup>63</sup>These are they that were numbered by Moses and Eleazar the priest, who numbered the children of Israel in the plains of Moab by the Jordan at Jericho. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.26.64" data-parsed="Num_26_64_0_0" data-passage="Num 26.64" id="Num.26.64"/><sup>64</sup>But among these there was not a man of them that were numbered by Moses and Aaron the priest, who numbered the children of Israel in the wilderness of Sinai. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.26.65" data-parsed="Num_26_65_0_0" data-passage="Num 26.65" id="Num.26.65"/><sup>65</sup>For Jehovah had said of them, They shall surely die in the wilderness. And there was not left a man of them, save Caleb the son of Jephunneh, and Joshua the son of Nun.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>