<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Numbers 2</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Numbers 2</span></div><div data-next="Num.3" data-prev="Num.1" data-progress="12.93%" data-shorttitle="" id="Num.2" title="Numbers 2">
<h2 id="Num.2-p0.1">2</h2>
<p id="Num.2-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.2.1" data-parsed="Num_2_1_0_0" data-passage="Num 2.1" id="Num.2.1"/><sup>1</sup>And Jehovah spake unto Moses and unto Aaron, saying, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.2.2" data-parsed="Num_2_2_0_0" data-passage="Num 2.2" id="Num.2.2"/><sup>2</sup>The children of Israel shall encamp every man by his own standard, with the ensigns of their fathers' houses: over against the tent of meeting shall they encamp round about. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.2.3" data-parsed="Num_2_3_0_0" data-passage="Num 2.3" id="Num.2.3"/><sup>3</sup>And those that encamp on the east side toward the sunrising shall be they of the standard of the camp of Judah, according to their hosts: and the prince of the children of Judah shall be Nahshon the son of Amminadab. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.2.4" data-parsed="Num_2_4_0_0" data-passage="Num 2.4" id="Num.2.4"/><sup>4</sup>And his host, and those that were numbered of them, were threescore and fourteen thousand and six hundred. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.2.5" data-parsed="Num_2_5_0_0" data-passage="Num 2.5" id="Num.2.5"/><sup>5</sup>And those that encamp next unto him shall be the tribe of Issachar: and the prince of the children of Issachar shall be Nethanel the son of Zuar. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.2.6" data-parsed="Num_2_6_0_0" data-passage="Num 2.6" id="Num.2.6"/><sup>6</sup>And his host, and those that were numbered thereof, were fifty and four thousand and four hundred.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.2.7" data-parsed="Num_2_7_0_0" data-passage="Num 2.7" id="Num.2.7"/><sup>7</sup><i>And</i> the tribe of Zebulun: and the prince of the children of Zebulun shall be Eliab the son of Helon. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.2.8" data-parsed="Num_2_8_0_0" data-passage="Num 2.8" id="Num.2.8"/><sup>8</sup>And his host, and those that were numbered thereof, were fifty and seven thousand and four hundred.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.2.9" data-parsed="Num_2_9_0_0" data-passage="Num 2.9" id="Num.2.9"/><sup>9</sup>All that were numbered of the camp of Judah were a hundred thousand and fourscore thousand and six thousand and four hundred, according to their hosts. They shall set forth first.</p>
<p id="Num.2-p2">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.2.10" data-parsed="Num_2_10_0_0" data-passage="Num 2.10" id="Num.2.10"/><sup>10</sup>On the south side shall be the standard of the camp of Reuben according to their hosts: and the prince of the children of Reuben shall be Elizur the son of Shedeur. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.2.11" data-parsed="Num_2_11_0_0" data-passage="Num 2.11" id="Num.2.11"/><sup>11</sup>And his host, and those that were numbered thereof,
were forty and six thousand and five hundred. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.2.12" data-parsed="Num_2_12_0_0" data-passage="Num 2.12" id="Num.2.12"/><sup>12</sup>And those that encamp next unto him shall be the tribe of Simeon: and the prince of the children of Simeon shall be Shelumiel the son of Zurishaddai. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.2.13" data-parsed="Num_2_13_0_0" data-passage="Num 2.13" id="Num.2.13"/><sup>13</sup>And his host, and those that were numbered of them, were fifty and nine thousand and three hundred. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.2.14" data-parsed="Num_2_14_0_0" data-passage="Num 2.14" id="Num.2.14"/><sup>14</sup>And the tribe of Gad: and the prince of the children of Gad shall be Eliasaph the son of Reuel. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.2.15" data-parsed="Num_2_15_0_0" data-passage="Num 2.15" id="Num.2.15"/><sup>15</sup>And his host, and those that were numbered of them, were forty and five thousand and six hundred and fifty.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.2.16" data-parsed="Num_2_16_0_0" data-passage="Num 2.16" id="Num.2.16"/><sup>16</sup>All that were numbered of the camp of Reuben were a hundred thousand and fifty and one thousand and four hundred and fifty, according to their hosts. And they shall set forth second.</p>
<p id="Num.2-p3">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.2.17" data-parsed="Num_2_17_0_0" data-passage="Num 2.17" id="Num.2.17"/><sup>17</sup>Then the tent of meeting shall set forward, with the camp of the Levites in the midst of the camps: as they encamp, so shall they set forward,
every man in his place, by their standards.</p>
<p id="Num.2-p4">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.2.18" data-parsed="Num_2_18_0_0" data-passage="Num 2.18" id="Num.2.18"/><sup>18</sup>On the west side shall be the standard of the camp of Ephraim according to their hosts: and the prince of the children of Ephraim shall be Elishama the son of Ammihud. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.2.19" data-parsed="Num_2_19_0_0" data-passage="Num 2.19" id="Num.2.19"/><sup>19</sup>And his host, and those that were numbered of them,
were forty thousand and five hundred. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.2.20" data-parsed="Num_2_20_0_0" data-passage="Num 2.20" id="Num.2.20"/><sup>20</sup>And next unto him shall be the tribe of Manasseh: and the prince of the children of Manasseh shall be Gamaliel the son of Pedahzur. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.2.21" data-parsed="Num_2_21_0_0" data-passage="Num 2.21" id="Num.2.21"/><sup>21</sup>And his host, and those that were numbered of them, were thirty and two thousand and two hundred. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.2.22" data-parsed="Num_2_22_0_0" data-passage="Num 2.22" id="Num.2.22"/><sup>22</sup>And the tribe of Benjamin: and the prince of the children of Benjamin shall be Abidan the son of Gideoni. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.2.23" data-parsed="Num_2_23_0_0" data-passage="Num 2.23" id="Num.2.23"/><sup>23</sup>And his host, and those that were numbered of them,
were thirty and five thousand and four hundred. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.2.24" data-parsed="Num_2_24_0_0" data-passage="Num 2.24" id="Num.2.24"/><sup>24</sup>All that were numbered of the camp of Ephraim were a hundred thousand and eight thousand and a hundred, according to their hosts. And they shall set forth third.</p>
<p id="Num.2-p5">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.2.25" data-parsed="Num_2_25_0_0" data-passage="Num 2.25" id="Num.2.25"/><sup>25</sup>On the north side shall be the standard of the camp of Dan according to their hosts: and the prince of the children of Dan shall be Ahiezer the son of Ammishaddai. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.2.26" data-parsed="Num_2_26_0_0" data-passage="Num 2.26" id="Num.2.26"/><sup>26</sup>And his host, and those that were numbered of them,
were threescore and two thousand and seven hundred. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.2.27" data-parsed="Num_2_27_0_0" data-passage="Num 2.27" id="Num.2.27"/><sup>27</sup>And those that encamp next unto him shall be the tribe of Asher: and the prince of the children of Asher shall be Pagiel the son of Ochran. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.2.28" data-parsed="Num_2_28_0_0" data-passage="Num 2.28" id="Num.2.28"/><sup>28</sup>And his host, and those that were numbered of them, were forty and one thousand and five hundred. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.2.29" data-parsed="Num_2_29_0_0" data-passage="Num 2.29" id="Num.2.29"/><sup>29</sup>And the tribe of Naphtali: and the prince of the children of Naphtali shall be Ahira the son of Enan. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.2.30" data-parsed="Num_2_30_0_0" data-passage="Num 2.30" id="Num.2.30"/><sup>30</sup>And his host, and those that were numbered of them, were fifty and three thousand and four hundred.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.2.31" data-parsed="Num_2_31_0_0" data-passage="Num 2.31" id="Num.2.31"/><sup>31</sup>All that were numbered of the camp of Dan were a hundred thousand and fifty and seven thousand and six hundred. They shall set forth hindmost by their standards.</p>
<p id="Num.2-p6">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.2.32" data-parsed="Num_2_32_0_0" data-passage="Num 2.32" id="Num.2.32"/><sup>32</sup>These are they that were numbered of the children of Israel by their fathers' houses: all that were numbered of the camps according to their hosts were six hundred thousand and three thousand and five hundred and fifty.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.2.33" data-parsed="Num_2_33_0_0" data-passage="Num 2.33" id="Num.2.33"/><sup>33</sup>But the Levites were not numbered among the children of Israel; as Jehovah commanded Moses. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.2.34" data-parsed="Num_2_34_0_0" data-passage="Num 2.34" id="Num.2.34"/><sup>34</sup>Thus did the children of Israel; according to all that Jehovah commanded Moses, so they encamped by their standards, and so they set forward, every one by their families, according to their fathers'
houses.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>