<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Numbers 21</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Numbers 21</span></div><div data-next="Num.22" data-prev="Num.20" data-progress="15.19%" data-shorttitle="" id="Num.21" title="Numbers 21">
<h2 id="Num.21-p0.1">21</h2>
<p id="Num.21-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.21.1" data-parsed="Num_21_1_0_0" data-passage="Num 21.1" id="Num.21.1"/><sup>1</sup>And the Canaanite, the king of Arad, who dwelt in the South, heard tell that Israel came by the way of Atharim; and he fought against Israel,
and took some of them captive. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.21.2" data-parsed="Num_21_2_0_0" data-passage="Num 21.2" id="Num.21.2"/><sup>2</sup>And Israel vowed a vow unto Jehovah, and said, If thou wilt indeed deliver this people into my hand, then I will utterly destroy their cities. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.21.3" data-parsed="Num_21_3_0_0" data-passage="Num 21.3" id="Num.21.3"/><sup>3</sup>And Jehovah hearkened to the voice of Israel, and delivered up the Canaanites; and they utterly destroyed them and their cities: and the name of the place was called Hormah.</p>
<p id="Num.21-p2">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.21.4" data-parsed="Num_21_4_0_0" data-passage="Num 21.4" id="Num.21.4"/><sup>4</sup>And they journeyed from mount Hor by the way to the Red Sea, to compass the land of Edom: and the soul of the people was much discouraged because of the way. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.21.5" data-parsed="Num_21_5_0_0" data-passage="Num 21.5" id="Num.21.5"/><sup>5</sup>And the people spake against God, and against Moses, Wherefore have ye brought us up out of Egypt to die in the wilderness? for there is no bread, and there is no water; and our soul loatheth this light bread.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.21.6" data-parsed="Num_21_6_0_0" data-passage="Num 21.6" id="Num.21.6"/><sup>6</sup>And Jehovah sent fiery serpents among the people, and they bit the people; and much people of Israel died. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.21.7" data-parsed="Num_21_7_0_0" data-passage="Num 21.7" id="Num.21.7"/><sup>7</sup>And the people came to Moses,
and said, We have sinned, because we have spoken against Jehovah, and against thee; pray unto Jehovah, that he take away the serpents from us. And Moses prayed for the people. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.21.8" data-parsed="Num_21_8_0_0" data-passage="Num 21.8" id="Num.21.8"/><sup>8</sup>And Jehovah said unto Moses, Make thee a fiery serpent, and set it upon a standard: and it shall come to pass, that every one that is bitten, when he seeth it, shall live. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.21.9" data-parsed="Num_21_9_0_0" data-passage="Num 21.9" id="Num.21.9"/><sup>9</sup>And Moses made a serpent of brass, and set it upon the standard: and it came to pass, that if a serpent had bitten any man, when he looked unto the serpent of brass, he lived.</p>
<p id="Num.21-p3">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.21.10" data-parsed="Num_21_10_0_0" data-passage="Num 21.10" id="Num.21.10"/><sup>10</sup>And the children of Israel journeyed, and encamped in Oboth. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.21.11" data-parsed="Num_21_11_0_0" data-passage="Num 21.11" id="Num.21.11"/><sup>11</sup>And they journeyed from Oboth, and encamped at Iyeabarim, in the wilderness which is before Moab, toward the sunrising. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.21.12" data-parsed="Num_21_12_0_0" data-passage="Num 21.12" id="Num.21.12"/><sup>12</sup>From thence they journeyed, and encamped in the valley of Zered. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.21.13" data-parsed="Num_21_13_0_0" data-passage="Num 21.13" id="Num.21.13"/><sup>13</sup>From thence they journeyed, and encamped on the other side of the Arnon, which is in the wilderness, that cometh out of the border of the Amorites: for the Arnon is the border of Moab, between Moab and the Amorites. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.21.14" data-parsed="Num_21_14_0_0" data-passage="Num 21.14" id="Num.21.14"/><sup>14</sup>Wherefore it is said in the book of the Wars of Jehovah,</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Num.21-p4">
Vaheb in Suphah,</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Num.21-p5">
And the valleys of the Arnon,</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Num.21-p6">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.21.15" data-parsed="Num_21_15_0_0" data-passage="Num 21.15" id="Num.21.15"/><sup>15</sup>And the slope of the valleys</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Num.21-p7">
That inclineth toward the dwelling of Ar,</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Num.21-p8">
And leaneth upon the border of Moab.</p>
<p id="Num.21-p9">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.21.16" data-parsed="Num_21_16_0_0" data-passage="Num 21.16" id="Num.21.16"/><sup>16</sup>And from thence <i>they journeyed</i> to Beer: that is the well whereof Jehovah said unto Moses, Gather the people together, and I will give them water.</p>
<p id="Num.21-p10">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.21.17" data-parsed="Num_21_17_0_0" data-passage="Num 21.17" id="Num.21.17"/><sup>17</sup>Then sang Israel this song:</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Num.21-p11">
Spring up, O well; sing ye unto it:</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Num.21-p12">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.21.18" data-parsed="Num_21_18_0_0" data-passage="Num 21.18" id="Num.21.18"/><sup>18</sup>The well, which the princes digged,</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Num.21-p13">
Which the nobles of the people delved,</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Num.21-p14">
With the sceptre, <i>and</i> with their staves.</p>
<p id="Num.21-p15">
And from the wilderness <i>they journeyed</i> to Mattanah; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.21.19" data-parsed="Num_21_19_0_0" data-passage="Num 21.19" id="Num.21.19"/><sup>19</sup>and from Mattanah to Nahaliel; and from Nahaliel to Bamoth; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.21.20" data-parsed="Num_21_20_0_0" data-passage="Num 21.20" id="Num.21.20"/><sup>20</sup>and from Bamoth to the valley that is in the field of Moab, to the top of Pisgah, which looketh down upon the desert.</p>
<p id="Num.21-p16">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.21.21" data-parsed="Num_21_21_0_0" data-passage="Num 21.21" id="Num.21.21"/><sup>21</sup>And Israel sent messengers unto Sihon king of the Amorites, saying,

<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.21.22" data-parsed="Num_21_22_0_0" data-passage="Num 21.22" id="Num.21.22"/><sup>22</sup>Let me pass through thy land: we will not turn aside into field, or into vineyard; we will not drink of the water of the wells: we will go by the king's highway, until we have passed thy border. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.21.23" data-parsed="Num_21_23_0_0" data-passage="Num 21.23" id="Num.21.23"/><sup>23</sup>And Sihon would not suffer Israel to pass through his border: but Sihon gathered all his people together, and went out against Israel into the wilderness, and came to Jahaz;
and he fought against Israel. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.21.24" data-parsed="Num_21_24_0_0" data-passage="Num 21.24" id="Num.21.24"/><sup>24</sup>And Israel smote him with the edge of the sword, and possessed his land from the Arnon unto the Jabbok, even unto the children of Ammon; for the border of the children of Ammon was strong.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.21.25" data-parsed="Num_21_25_0_0" data-passage="Num 21.25" id="Num.21.25"/><sup>25</sup>And Israel took all these cities: and Israel dwelt in all the cities of the Amorites, in Heshbon, and in all the towns thereof. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.21.26" data-parsed="Num_21_26_0_0" data-passage="Num 21.26" id="Num.21.26"/><sup>26</sup>For Heshbon was the city of Sihon the king of the Amorites, who had fought against the former king of Moab, and taken all his land out of his hand, even unto the Arnon.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.21.27" data-parsed="Num_21_27_0_0" data-passage="Num 21.27" id="Num.21.27"/><sup>27</sup>Wherefore they that speak in proverbs say,</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Num.21-p17">
Come ye to Heshbon;</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Num.21-p18">
Let the city of Sihon be built and established:</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Num.21-p19">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.21.28" data-parsed="Num_21_28_0_0" data-passage="Num 21.28" id="Num.21.28"/><sup>28</sup>For a fire is gone out of Heshbon,</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Num.21-p20">
A flame from the city of Sihon:</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Num.21-p21">
It hath devoured Ar of Moab,</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Num.21-p22">
The lords of the high places of the Arnon.</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Num.21-p23">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.21.29" data-parsed="Num_21_29_0_0" data-passage="Num 21.29" id="Num.21.29"/><sup>29</sup>Woe to thee, Moab!</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Num.21-p24">
Thou art undone, O people of Chemosh:</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Num.21-p25">
He hath given his sons as fugitives,</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Num.21-p26">
And his daughters into captivity,</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Num.21-p27">
Unto Sihon king of the Amorites.</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Num.21-p28">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.21.30" data-parsed="Num_21_30_0_0" data-passage="Num 21.30" id="Num.21.30"/><sup>30</sup>We have shot at them; Heshbon is perished even unto Dibon,</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Num.21-p29">
And we have laid waste even unto Nophah,</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Num.21-p30">
Which <i>reacheth</i> unto Medeba.</p>
<p id="Num.21-p31">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.21.31" data-parsed="Num_21_31_0_0" data-passage="Num 21.31" id="Num.21.31"/><sup>31</sup>Thus Israel dwelt in the land of the Amorites. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.21.32" data-parsed="Num_21_32_0_0" data-passage="Num 21.32" id="Num.21.32"/><sup>32</sup>And Moses sent to spy out Jazer; and they took the towns thereof, and drove out the Amorites that were there.</p>
<p id="Num.21-p32">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.21.33" data-parsed="Num_21_33_0_0" data-passage="Num 21.33" id="Num.21.33"/><sup>33</sup>And they turned and went up by the way of Bashan: and Og the king of Bashan went out against them, he and all his people, to battle at Edrei.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.21.34" data-parsed="Num_21_34_0_0" data-passage="Num 21.34" id="Num.21.34"/><sup>34</sup>And Jehovah said unto Moses, Fear him not: for I have delivered him into thy hand, and all his people, and his land; and thou shalt do to him as thou didst unto Sihon king of the Amorites, who dwelt at Heshbon. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.21.35" data-parsed="Num_21_35_0_0" data-passage="Num 21.35" id="Num.21.35"/><sup>35</sup>So they smote him, and his sons and all his people, until there was none left him remaining: and they possessed his land.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>