<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Numbers 23</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Numbers 23</span></div><div data-next="Num.24" data-prev="Num.22" data-progress="15.45%" data-shorttitle="" id="Num.23" title="Numbers 23">
<h2 id="Num.23-p0.1">23</h2>
<p id="Num.23-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.23.1" data-parsed="Num_23_1_0_0" data-passage="Num 23.1" id="Num.23.1"/><sup>1</sup>And Balaam said unto Balak, Build me here seven altars, and prepare me here seven bullocks and seven rams. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.23.2" data-parsed="Num_23_2_0_0" data-passage="Num 23.2" id="Num.23.2"/><sup>2</sup>And Balak did as Balaam had spoken; and Balak and Balaam offered on every altar a bullock and a ram.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.23.3" data-parsed="Num_23_3_0_0" data-passage="Num 23.3" id="Num.23.3"/><sup>3</sup>And Balaam said unto Balak, Stand by thy burnt-offering, and I will go:
peradventure Jehovah will come to meet me; and whatsoever he showeth me I will tell thee. And he went to a bare height. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.23.4" data-parsed="Num_23_4_0_0" data-passage="Num 23.4" id="Num.23.4"/><sup>4</sup>And God met Balaam: and he said unto him, I have prepared the seven altars, and I have offered up a bullock and a ram on every altar. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.23.5" data-parsed="Num_23_5_0_0" data-passage="Num 23.5" id="Num.23.5"/><sup>5</sup>And Jehovah put a word in Balaam's mouth, and said, Return unto Balak, and thus thou shalt speak. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.23.6" data-parsed="Num_23_6_0_0" data-passage="Num 23.6" id="Num.23.6"/><sup>6</sup>And he returned unto him, and, lo, he was standing by his burnt-offering, he, and all the princes of Moab. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.23.7" data-parsed="Num_23_7_0_0" data-passage="Num 23.7" id="Num.23.7"/><sup>7</sup>And he took up his parable, and said, From Aram hath Balak brought me, The king of Moab from the mountains of the East: Come,
curse me Jacob, And come, defy Israel. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.23.8" data-parsed="Num_23_8_0_0" data-passage="Num 23.8" id="Num.23.8"/><sup>8</sup>How shall I curse, whom God hath not cursed? And how shall I defy, whom Jehovah hath not defied? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.23.9" data-parsed="Num_23_9_0_0" data-passage="Num 23.9" id="Num.23.9"/><sup>9</sup>For from the top of the rocks I see him, And from the hills I behold him: lo, it is a people that dwelleth alone, And shall not be reckoned among the nations.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.23.10" data-parsed="Num_23_10_0_0" data-passage="Num 23.10" id="Num.23.10"/><sup>10</sup>Who can count the dust of Jacob, Or number the fourth part of Israel?
Let me die the death of the righteous, And let my last end be like his!

<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.23.11" data-parsed="Num_23_11_0_0" data-passage="Num 23.11" id="Num.23.11"/><sup>11</sup>And Balak said unto Balaam, What hast thou done unto me? I took thee to curse mine enemies, and, behold, thou hast blessed them altogether. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.23.12" data-parsed="Num_23_12_0_0" data-passage="Num 23.12" id="Num.23.12"/><sup>12</sup>And he answered and said, Must I not take heed to speak that which Jehovah putteth in my mouth?</p>
<p id="Num.23-p2">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.23.13" data-parsed="Num_23_13_0_0" data-passage="Num 23.13" id="Num.23.13"/><sup>13</sup>And Balak said unto him, Come, I pray thee, with me unto another place,
from whence thou mayest see them; thou shalt see but the utmost part of them,
and shalt not see them all: and curse me them from thence. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.23.14" data-parsed="Num_23_14_0_0" data-passage="Num 23.14" id="Num.23.14"/><sup>14</sup>And he took him into the field of Zophim, to the top of Pisgah, and built seven altars,
and offered up a bullock and a ram on every altar. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.23.15" data-parsed="Num_23_15_0_0" data-passage="Num 23.15" id="Num.23.15"/><sup>15</sup>And he said unto Balak, Stand here by thy burnt-offering, while I meet <i>Jehovah</i> yonder.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.23.16" data-parsed="Num_23_16_0_0" data-passage="Num 23.16" id="Num.23.16"/><sup>16</sup>And Jehovah met Balaam, and put a word in his mouth, and said, Return unto Balak, and thus shalt thou speak. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.23.17" data-parsed="Num_23_17_0_0" data-passage="Num 23.17" id="Num.23.17"/><sup>17</sup>And he came to him, and, lo, he was standing by his burnt-offering, and the princes of Moab with him. And Balak said unto him, What hath Jehovah spoken? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.23.18" data-parsed="Num_23_18_0_0" data-passage="Num 23.18" id="Num.23.18"/><sup>18</sup>And he took up his parable, and said,</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Num.23-p3">
Rise up, Balak, and hear;</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Num.23-p4">
Hearken unto me, thou son of Zippor:</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Num.23-p5">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.23.19" data-parsed="Num_23_19_0_0" data-passage="Num 23.19" id="Num.23.19"/><sup>19</sup>God is not a man, that he should lie,</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Num.23-p6">
Neither the son of man, that he should repent:</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Num.23-p7">
Hath he said, and will he not do it?</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Num.23-p8">
Or hath he spoken, and will he not make it good?</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Num.23-p9">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.23.20" data-parsed="Num_23_20_0_0" data-passage="Num 23.20" id="Num.23.20"/><sup>20</sup>Behold, I have received <i>commandment</i> to bless:</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Num.23-p10">
And he hath blessed, and I cannot reverse it.</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Num.23-p11">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.23.21" data-parsed="Num_23_21_0_0" data-passage="Num 23.21" id="Num.23.21"/><sup>21</sup>He hath not beheld iniquity in Jacob;</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Num.23-p12">
Neither hath he seen perverseness in Israel:</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Num.23-p13">
Jehovah his God is with him,</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Num.23-p14">
And the shout of a king is among them.</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Num.23-p15">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.23.22" data-parsed="Num_23_22_0_0" data-passage="Num 23.22" id="Num.23.22"/><sup>22</sup>God bringeth them forth out of Egypt;</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Num.23-p16">
He hath as it were the strength of the wild-ox.</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Num.23-p17">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.23.23" data-parsed="Num_23_23_0_0" data-passage="Num 23.23" id="Num.23.23"/><sup>23</sup>Surely there is no enchantment with Jacob;</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Num.23-p18">
Neither is there any divination with Israel:</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Num.23-p19">
Now shalt it be said of Jacob and of Israel,</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Num.23-p20">
What hath God wrought!</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Num.23-p21">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.23.24" data-parsed="Num_23_24_0_0" data-passage="Num 23.24" id="Num.23.24"/><sup>24</sup>Behold, the people riseth up as a lioness,</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Num.23-p22">
And as a lion doth he lift himself up:</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Num.23-p23">
He shall not lie down until he eat of the prey,</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Num.23-p24">
And drink the blood of the slain.</p>
<p id="Num.23-p25">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.23.25" data-parsed="Num_23_25_0_0" data-passage="Num 23.25" id="Num.23.25"/><sup>25</sup>And Balak said unto Balaam, Neither curse them at all, nor bless them at all. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.23.26" data-parsed="Num_23_26_0_0" data-passage="Num 23.26" id="Num.23.26"/><sup>26</sup>But Balaam answered and said unto Balak, Told not I thee,
saying, All that Jehovah speaketh, that I must do? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.23.27" data-parsed="Num_23_27_0_0" data-passage="Num 23.27" id="Num.23.27"/><sup>27</sup>And Balak said unto Balaam, Come now, I will take thee unto another place; peradventure it will please God that thou mayest curse me them from thence. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.23.28" data-parsed="Num_23_28_0_0" data-passage="Num 23.28" id="Num.23.28"/><sup>28</sup>And Balak took Balaam unto the top of Peor, that looketh down upon the desert. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.23.29" data-parsed="Num_23_29_0_0" data-passage="Num 23.29" id="Num.23.29"/><sup>29</sup>And Balaam said unto Balak, Build me here seven altars, and prepare me here seven bullocks and seven rams. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.23.30" data-parsed="Num_23_30_0_0" data-passage="Num 23.30" id="Num.23.30"/><sup>30</sup>And Balak did as Balaam had said, and offered up a bullock and a ram on every altar.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>