<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Numbers 3</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Numbers 3</span></div><div data-next="Num.4" data-prev="Num.2" data-progress="13.03%" data-shorttitle="" id="Num.3" title="Numbers 3">
<h2 id="Num.3-p0.1">3</h2>
<p id="Num.3-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.3.1" data-parsed="Num_3_1_0_0" data-passage="Num 3.1" id="Num.3.1"/><sup>1</sup>Now these are the generations of Aaron and Moses in the day that Jehovah spake with Moses in mount Sinai. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.3.2" data-parsed="Num_3_2_0_0" data-passage="Num 3.2" id="Num.3.2"/><sup>2</sup>And these are the names of the sons of Aaron: Nadab the first-born, and Abihu, Eleazar, and Ithamar.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.3.3" data-parsed="Num_3_3_0_0" data-passage="Num 3.3" id="Num.3.3"/><sup>3</sup>These are the names of the sons of Aaron, the priests that were anointed, whom he consecrated to minister in the priest's office. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.3.4" data-parsed="Num_3_4_0_0" data-passage="Num 3.4" id="Num.3.4"/><sup>4</sup>And Nadab and Abihu died before Jehovah, when they offered strange fire before Jehovah, in the wilderness of Sinai, and they had no children; and Eleazar and Ithamar ministered in the priest's office in the presence of Aaron their father.</p>
<p id="Num.3-p2">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.3.5" data-parsed="Num_3_5_0_0" data-passage="Num 3.5" id="Num.3.5"/><sup>5</sup>And Jehovah spake unto Moses, saying, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.3.6" data-parsed="Num_3_6_0_0" data-passage="Num 3.6" id="Num.3.6"/><sup>6</sup>Bring the tribe of Levi near,
and set them before Aaron the priest, that they may minister unto him.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.3.7" data-parsed="Num_3_7_0_0" data-passage="Num 3.7" id="Num.3.7"/><sup>7</sup>And they shall keep his charge, and the charge of the whole congregation before the tent of meeting, to do the service of the tabernacle. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.3.8" data-parsed="Num_3_8_0_0" data-passage="Num 3.8" id="Num.3.8"/><sup>8</sup>And they shall keep all the furniture of the tent of meeting, and the charge of the children of Israel, to do the service of the tabernacle. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.3.9" data-parsed="Num_3_9_0_0" data-passage="Num 3.9" id="Num.3.9"/><sup>9</sup>And thou shalt give the Levites unto Aaron and to his sons: they are wholly given unto him on the behalf of the children of Israel. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.3.10" data-parsed="Num_3_10_0_0" data-passage="Num 3.10" id="Num.3.10"/><sup>10</sup>And thou shalt appoint Aaron and his sons, and they shall keep their priesthood: and the stranger that cometh nigh shall be put to death.</p>
<p id="Num.3-p3">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.3.11" data-parsed="Num_3_11_0_0" data-passage="Num 3.11" id="Num.3.11"/><sup>11</sup>And Jehovah spake unto Moses, saying, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.3.12" data-parsed="Num_3_12_0_0" data-passage="Num 3.12" id="Num.3.12"/><sup>12</sup>And I, behold, I have taken the Levites from among the children of Israel instead of all the first-born that openeth the womb among the children of Israel; and the Levites shall be mine: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.3.13" data-parsed="Num_3_13_0_0" data-passage="Num 3.13" id="Num.3.13"/><sup>13</sup>for all the first-born are mine; on the day that I smote all the first-born in the land of Egypt I hallowed unto me all the first-born in Israel, both man and beast; mine they shall be: I am Jehovah.</p>
<p id="Num.3-p4">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.3.14" data-parsed="Num_3_14_0_0" data-passage="Num 3.14" id="Num.3.14"/><sup>14</sup>And Jehovah spake unto Moses in the wilderness of Sinai, saying,

<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.3.15" data-parsed="Num_3_15_0_0" data-passage="Num 3.15" id="Num.3.15"/><sup>15</sup>Number the children of Levi by their fathers' houses, by their families: every male from a month old and upward shalt thou number them.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.3.16" data-parsed="Num_3_16_0_0" data-passage="Num 3.16" id="Num.3.16"/><sup>16</sup>And Moses numbered them according to the word of Jehovah, as he was commanded. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.3.17" data-parsed="Num_3_17_0_0" data-passage="Num 3.17" id="Num.3.17"/><sup>17</sup>And these were the sons of Levi by their names: Gershon, and Kohath, and Merari. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.3.18" data-parsed="Num_3_18_0_0" data-passage="Num 3.18" id="Num.3.18"/><sup>18</sup>And these are the names of the sons of Gershon by their families: Libni and Shimei. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.3.19" data-parsed="Num_3_19_0_0" data-passage="Num 3.19" id="Num.3.19"/><sup>19</sup>And the sons of Kohath by their families: Amram, and Izhar, Hebron, and Uzziel. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.3.20" data-parsed="Num_3_20_0_0" data-passage="Num 3.20" id="Num.3.20"/><sup>20</sup>And the sons of Merari by their families: Mahli and Mushi. These are the families of the Levites according to their fathers' houses.</p>
<p id="Num.3-p5">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.3.21" data-parsed="Num_3_21_0_0" data-passage="Num 3.21" id="Num.3.21"/><sup>21</sup>Of Gershon was the family of the Libnites, and the family of the Shimeites: these are the families of the Gershonites. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.3.22" data-parsed="Num_3_22_0_0" data-passage="Num 3.22" id="Num.3.22"/><sup>22</sup>Those that were numbered of them, according to the number of all the males, from a month old and upward, even those that were numbered of them were seven thousand and five hundred. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.3.23" data-parsed="Num_3_23_0_0" data-passage="Num 3.23" id="Num.3.23"/><sup>23</sup>The families of the Gershonites shall encamp behind the tabernacle westward. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.3.24" data-parsed="Num_3_24_0_0" data-passage="Num 3.24" id="Num.3.24"/><sup>24</sup>And the prince of the fathers' house of the Gershonites shall be Eliasaph the son of Lael. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.3.25" data-parsed="Num_3_25_0_0" data-passage="Num 3.25" id="Num.3.25"/><sup>25</sup>And the charge of the sons of Gershon in the tent of meeting shall be the tabernacle, and the Tent,
the covering thereof, and the screen for the door of the tent of meeting,

<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.3.26" data-parsed="Num_3_26_0_0" data-passage="Num 3.26" id="Num.3.26"/><sup>26</sup>and the hangings of the court, and the screen for the door of the court, which is by the tabernacle, and by the altar round about, and the cords of it for all the service thereof.</p>
<p id="Num.3-p6">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.3.27" data-parsed="Num_3_27_0_0" data-passage="Num 3.27" id="Num.3.27"/><sup>27</sup>And of Kohath was the family of the Amramites, and the family of the Izharites, and the family of the Hebronites, and the family of the Uzzielites: these are the families of the Kohathites. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.3.28" data-parsed="Num_3_28_0_0" data-passage="Num 3.28" id="Num.3.28"/><sup>28</sup>According to the number of all the males, from a month old and upward, there were eight thousand and six hundred, keeping the charge of the sanctuary. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.3.29" data-parsed="Num_3_29_0_0" data-passage="Num 3.29" id="Num.3.29"/><sup>29</sup>The families of the sons of Kohath shall encamp on the side of the tabernacle southward. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.3.30" data-parsed="Num_3_30_0_0" data-passage="Num 3.30" id="Num.3.30"/><sup>30</sup>And the prince of the fathers' house of the families of the Kohathites shall be Elizaphan the son of Uzziel. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.3.31" data-parsed="Num_3_31_0_0" data-passage="Num 3.31" id="Num.3.31"/><sup>31</sup>And their charge shall be the ark, and the table, and the candlestick, and the altars, and the vessels of the sanctuary wherewith they minister, and the screen, and all the service thereof. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.3.32" data-parsed="Num_3_32_0_0" data-passage="Num 3.32" id="Num.3.32"/><sup>32</sup>And Eleazar the son of Aaron the priest shall be prince of the princes of the Levites, <i>and have</i> the oversight of them that keep the charge of the sanctuary.</p>
<p id="Num.3-p7">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.3.33" data-parsed="Num_3_33_0_0" data-passage="Num 3.33" id="Num.3.33"/><sup>33</sup>Of Merari was the family of the Mahlites, and the family of the Mushites: these are the families of Merari. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.3.34" data-parsed="Num_3_34_0_0" data-passage="Num 3.34" id="Num.3.34"/><sup>34</sup>And those that were numbered of them, according to the number of all the males, from a month old and upward, were six thousand and two hundred. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.3.35" data-parsed="Num_3_35_0_0" data-passage="Num 3.35" id="Num.3.35"/><sup>35</sup>And the prince of the fathers' house of the families of Merari was Zuriel the son of Abihail: they shall encamp on the side of the tabernacle northward. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.3.36" data-parsed="Num_3_36_0_0" data-passage="Num 3.36" id="Num.3.36"/><sup>36</sup>And the appointed charge of the sons of Merari shall be the boards of the tabernacle, and the bars thereof, and the pillars thereof, and the sockets thereof, and all the instruments thereof, and all the service thereof, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.3.37" data-parsed="Num_3_37_0_0" data-passage="Num 3.37" id="Num.3.37"/><sup>37</sup>and the pillars of the court round about, and their sockets, and their pins, and their cords.</p>
<p id="Num.3-p8">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.3.38" data-parsed="Num_3_38_0_0" data-passage="Num 3.38" id="Num.3.38"/><sup>38</sup>And those that encamp before the tabernacle eastward, before the tent of meeting toward the sunrising, shall be Moses, and Aaron and his sons,
keeping the charge of the sanctuary for the charge of the children of Israel;
and the stranger that cometh nigh shall be put to death. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.3.39" data-parsed="Num_3_39_0_0" data-passage="Num 3.39" id="Num.3.39"/><sup>39</sup>All that were numbered of the Levites, whom Moses and Aaron numbered at the commandment of Jehovah, by their families, all the males from a month old and upward, were twenty and two thousand.</p>
<p id="Num.3-p9">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.3.40" data-parsed="Num_3_40_0_0" data-passage="Num 3.40" id="Num.3.40"/><sup>40</sup>And Jehovah said unto Moses, Number all the first-born males of the children of Israel from a month old and upward, and take the number of their names. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.3.41" data-parsed="Num_3_41_0_0" data-passage="Num 3.41" id="Num.3.41"/><sup>41</sup>And thou shalt take the Levites for me (I am Jehovah) instead of all the first-born among the children of Israel; and the cattle of the Levites instead of all the firstlings among the cattle of the children of Israel: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.3.42" data-parsed="Num_3_42_0_0" data-passage="Num 3.42" id="Num.3.42"/><sup>42</sup>and Moses numbered, as Jehovah commanded him, all the first-born among the children of Israel. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.3.43" data-parsed="Num_3_43_0_0" data-passage="Num 3.43" id="Num.3.43"/><sup>43</sup>And all the first-born males according to the number of names, from a month old and upward, of those that were numbered of them, were twenty and two thousand two hundred and threescore and thirteen.</p>
<p id="Num.3-p10">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.3.44" data-parsed="Num_3_44_0_0" data-passage="Num 3.44" id="Num.3.44"/><sup>44</sup>And Jehovah spake unto Moses, saying, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.3.45" data-parsed="Num_3_45_0_0" data-passage="Num 3.45" id="Num.3.45"/><sup>45</sup>Take the Levites instead of all the first-born among the children of Israel, and the cattle of the Levites instead of their cattle; and the Levites shall be mine: I am Jehovah.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.3.46" data-parsed="Num_3_46_0_0" data-passage="Num 3.46" id="Num.3.46"/><sup>46</sup>And for the redemption of the two hundred and threescore and thirteen of the first-born of the children of Israel, that are over and above <i>the number of</i> the Levites, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.3.47" data-parsed="Num_3_47_0_0" data-passage="Num 3.47" id="Num.3.47"/><sup>47</sup>thou shalt take five shekels apiece by the poll; after the shekel of the sanctuary shalt thou take them (the shekel is twenty gerahs): 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.3.48" data-parsed="Num_3_48_0_0" data-passage="Num 3.48" id="Num.3.48"/><sup>48</sup>and thou shalt give the money, wherewith the odd number of them is redeemed, unto Aaron and to his sons. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.3.49" data-parsed="Num_3_49_0_0" data-passage="Num 3.49" id="Num.3.49"/><sup>49</sup>And Moses took the redemption-money from them that were over and above them that were redeemed by the Levites; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.3.50" data-parsed="Num_3_50_0_0" data-passage="Num 3.50" id="Num.3.50"/><sup>50</sup>from the first-born of the children of Israel took he the money, a thousand three hundred and threescore and five <i>shekels</i>,
after the shekel of the sanctuary: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.3.51" data-parsed="Num_3_51_0_0" data-passage="Num 3.51" id="Num.3.51"/><sup>51</sup>and Moses gave the redemption-money unto Aaron and to his sons, according to the word of Jehovah, as Jehovah commanded Moses.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>