<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Numbers 35</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Numbers 35</span></div><div data-next="Num.36" data-prev="Num.34" data-progress="16.72%" data-shorttitle="" id="Num.35" title="Numbers 35">
<h2 id="Num.35-p0.1">35</h2>
<p id="Num.35-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.35.1" data-parsed="Num_35_1_0_0" data-passage="Num 35.1" id="Num.35.1"/><sup>1</sup>And Jehovah spake unto Moses in the plains of Moab by the Jordan at Jericho, saying, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.35.2" data-parsed="Num_35_2_0_0" data-passage="Num 35.2" id="Num.35.2"/><sup>2</sup>Command the children of Israel, that they give unto the Levites of the inheritance of their possession cities to dwell in; and suburbs for the cities round about them shall ye give unto the Levites.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.35.3" data-parsed="Num_35_3_0_0" data-passage="Num 35.3" id="Num.35.3"/><sup>3</sup>And the cities shall they have to dwell in; and their suburbs shall be for their cattle, and for their substance, and for all their beasts. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.35.4" data-parsed="Num_35_4_0_0" data-passage="Num 35.4" id="Num.35.4"/><sup>4</sup>And the suburbs of the cities, which ye shall give unto the Levites, shall be from the wall of the city and outward a thousand cubits round about. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.35.5" data-parsed="Num_35_5_0_0" data-passage="Num 35.5" id="Num.35.5"/><sup>5</sup>And ye shall measure without the city for the east side two thousand cubits, and for the south side two thousand cubits, and for the west side two thousand cubits, and for the north side two thousand cubits, the city being in the midst. This shall be to them the suburbs of the cities. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.35.6" data-parsed="Num_35_6_0_0" data-passage="Num 35.6" id="Num.35.6"/><sup>6</sup>And the cities which ye shall give unto the Levites, they shall be the six cities of refuge,
which ye shall give for the manslayer to flee unto: and besides them ye shall give forty and two cities. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.35.7" data-parsed="Num_35_7_0_0" data-passage="Num 35.7" id="Num.35.7"/><sup>7</sup>All the cities which ye shall give to the Levites shall be forty and eight cities; them <i>shall ye give</i> with their suburbs. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.35.8" data-parsed="Num_35_8_0_0" data-passage="Num 35.8" id="Num.35.8"/><sup>8</sup>And concerning the cities which ye shall give of the possession of the children of Israel, from the many ye shall take many; and from the few ye shall take few: every one according to his inheritance which he inheriteth shall give of his cities unto the Levites. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.35.9" data-parsed="Num_35_9_0_0" data-passage="Num 35.9" id="Num.35.9"/><sup>9</sup>And Jehovah spake unto Moses, saying, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.35.10" data-parsed="Num_35_10_0_0" data-passage="Num 35.10" id="Num.35.10"/><sup>10</sup>Speak unto the children of Israel, and say unto them, When ye pass over the Jordan into the land of Canaan, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.35.11" data-parsed="Num_35_11_0_0" data-passage="Num 35.11" id="Num.35.11"/><sup>11</sup>then ye shall appoint you cities to be cities of refuge for you, that the manslayer that killeth any person unwittingly may flee thither. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.35.12" data-parsed="Num_35_12_0_0" data-passage="Num 35.12" id="Num.35.12"/><sup>12</sup>And the cities shall be unto you for refuge from the avenger, that the manslayer die not, until he stand before the congregation for judgment. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.35.13" data-parsed="Num_35_13_0_0" data-passage="Num 35.13" id="Num.35.13"/><sup>13</sup>And the cities which ye shall give shall be for you six cities of refuge. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.35.14" data-parsed="Num_35_14_0_0" data-passage="Num 35.14" id="Num.35.14"/><sup>14</sup>Ye shall give three cities beyond the Jordan, and three cities shall ye give in the land of Canaan; they shall be cities of refuge. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.35.15" data-parsed="Num_35_15_0_0" data-passage="Num 35.15" id="Num.35.15"/><sup>15</sup>For the children of Israel, and for the stranger and for the sojourner among them, shall these six cities be for refuge; that every one that killeth any person unwittingly may flee thither. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.35.16" data-parsed="Num_35_16_0_0" data-passage="Num 35.16" id="Num.35.16"/><sup>16</sup>But if he smote him with an instrument of iron, so that he died, he is a murderer: the murderer shall surely be put to death.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.35.17" data-parsed="Num_35_17_0_0" data-passage="Num 35.17" id="Num.35.17"/><sup>17</sup>And if he smote him with a stone in the hand, whereby a man may die,
and he died, he is a murderer: the murderer shall surely be put to death.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.35.18" data-parsed="Num_35_18_0_0" data-passage="Num 35.18" id="Num.35.18"/><sup>18</sup>Or if he smote him with a weapon of wood in the hand, whereby a man may die, and he died, he is a murderer: the murderer shall surely be put to death. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.35.19" data-parsed="Num_35_19_0_0" data-passage="Num 35.19" id="Num.35.19"/><sup>19</sup>The avenger of blood shall himself put the murderer to death:
when he meeteth him, he shall put him to death. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.35.20" data-parsed="Num_35_20_0_0" data-passage="Num 35.20" id="Num.35.20"/><sup>20</sup>And if he thrust him of hatred, or hurled at him, lying in wait, so that he died, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.35.21" data-parsed="Num_35_21_0_0" data-passage="Num 35.21" id="Num.35.21"/><sup>21</sup>or in enmity smote him with his hand, so that he died; he that smote him shall surely be put to death; he is a murderer: the avenger of blood shall put the murderer to death, when he meeteth him.</p>
<p id="Num.35-p2">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.35.22" data-parsed="Num_35_22_0_0" data-passage="Num 35.22" id="Num.35.22"/><sup>22</sup>But if he thrust him suddenly without enmity, or hurled upon him anything without lying in wait, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.35.23" data-parsed="Num_35_23_0_0" data-passage="Num 35.23" id="Num.35.23"/><sup>23</sup>or with any stone, whereby a man may die, seeing him not, and cast it upon him, so that he died, and he was not his enemy, neither sought his harm; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.35.24" data-parsed="Num_35_24_0_0" data-passage="Num 35.24" id="Num.35.24"/><sup>24</sup>then the congregation shall judge between the smiter and the avenger of blood according to these ordinances;

<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.35.25" data-parsed="Num_35_25_0_0" data-passage="Num 35.25" id="Num.35.25"/><sup>25</sup>and the congregation shall deliver the manslayer out of the hand of the avenger of blood, and the congregation shall restore him to his city of refuge, whither he was fled: and he shall dwell therein until the death of the high priest, who was anointed with the holy oil. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.35.26" data-parsed="Num_35_26_0_0" data-passage="Num 35.26" id="Num.35.26"/><sup>26</sup>But if the manslayer shall at any time go beyond the border of his city of refuge,
whither he fleeth, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.35.27" data-parsed="Num_35_27_0_0" data-passage="Num 35.27" id="Num.35.27"/><sup>27</sup>and the avenger of blood find him without the border of his city of refuge, and the avenger of blood slay the manslayer; he shall not be guilty of blood, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.35.28" data-parsed="Num_35_28_0_0" data-passage="Num 35.28" id="Num.35.28"/><sup>28</sup>because he should have remained in his city of refuge until the death of the high priest: but after the death of the high priest the manslayer shall return into the land of his possession.</p>
<p id="Num.35-p3">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.35.29" data-parsed="Num_35_29_0_0" data-passage="Num 35.29" id="Num.35.29"/><sup>29</sup>And these things shall be for a statute <i>and</i> ordinance unto you throughout your generations in all your dwellings. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.35.30" data-parsed="Num_35_30_0_0" data-passage="Num 35.30" id="Num.35.30"/><sup>30</sup>Whoso killeth any person, the murderer shall be slain at the mouth of witnesses: but one witness shall not testify against any person that he die. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.35.31" data-parsed="Num_35_31_0_0" data-passage="Num 35.31" id="Num.35.31"/><sup>31</sup>Moreover ye shall take no ransom for the life of a murderer, that is guilty of death; but he shall surely be put to death. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.35.32" data-parsed="Num_35_32_0_0" data-passage="Num 35.32" id="Num.35.32"/><sup>32</sup>And ye shall take no ransom for him that is fled to his city of refuge, that he may come again to dwell in the land, until the death of the priest. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.35.33" data-parsed="Num_35_33_0_0" data-passage="Num 35.33" id="Num.35.33"/><sup>33</sup>So ye shall not pollute the land wherein ye are: for blood, it polluteth the land; and no expiation can be made for the land for the blood that is shed therein, but by the blood of him that shed it. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.35.34" data-parsed="Num_35_34_0_0" data-passage="Num 35.34" id="Num.35.34"/><sup>34</sup>And thou shalt not defile the land which ye inhabit, in the midst of which I dwell: for I, Jehovah, dwell in the midst of the children of Israel.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>