<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Numbers 34</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Numbers 34</span></div><div data-next="Num.35" data-prev="Num.33" data-progress="16.64%" data-shorttitle="" id="Num.34" title="Numbers 34">
<h2 id="Num.34-p0.1">34</h2>
<p id="Num.34-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.34.1" data-parsed="Num_34_1_0_0" data-passage="Num 34.1" id="Num.34.1"/><sup>1</sup>And Jehovah spake unto Moses, saying, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.34.2" data-parsed="Num_34_2_0_0" data-passage="Num 34.2" id="Num.34.2"/><sup>2</sup>Command the children of Israel, and say unto them, When ye come into the land of Canaan (this is the land that shall fall unto you for an inheritance, even the land of Canaan according to the borders thereof), 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.34.3" data-parsed="Num_34_3_0_0" data-passage="Num 34.3" id="Num.34.3"/><sup>3</sup>then your south quarter shall be from the wilderness of Zin along by the side of Edom, and your south border shall be from the end of the Salt Sea eastward; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.34.4" data-parsed="Num_34_4_0_0" data-passage="Num 34.4" id="Num.34.4"/><sup>4</sup>and your border shall turn about southward of the ascent of Akrabbim, and pass along to Zin; and the goings out thereof shall be southward of Kadesh-barnea; and it shall go forth to Hazar-addar, and pass along to Azmon; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.34.5" data-parsed="Num_34_5_0_0" data-passage="Num 34.5" id="Num.34.5"/><sup>5</sup>and the border shall turn about from Azmon unto the brook of Egypt, and the goings out thereof shall be at the sea.</p>
<p id="Num.34-p2">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.34.6" data-parsed="Num_34_6_0_0" data-passage="Num 34.6" id="Num.34.6"/><sup>6</sup>And for the western border, ye shall have the great sea and the border <i>thereof</i>: this shall be your west border.</p>
<p id="Num.34-p3">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.34.7" data-parsed="Num_34_7_0_0" data-passage="Num 34.7" id="Num.34.7"/><sup>7</sup>And this shall be your north border: from the great sea ye shall mark out for you mount Hor; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.34.8" data-parsed="Num_34_8_0_0" data-passage="Num 34.8" id="Num.34.8"/><sup>8</sup>from mount Hor ye shall mark out unto the entrance of Hamath; and the goings out of the border shall be at Zedad;

<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.34.9" data-parsed="Num_34_9_0_0" data-passage="Num 34.9" id="Num.34.9"/><sup>9</sup>and the border shall go forth to Ziphron, and the goings out thereof shall be at Hazar-enan: this shall be your north border.</p>
<p id="Num.34-p4">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.34.10" data-parsed="Num_34_10_0_0" data-passage="Num 34.10" id="Num.34.10"/><sup>10</sup>And ye shall mark out your east border from Hazar-enan to Shepham;

<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.34.11" data-parsed="Num_34_11_0_0" data-passage="Num 34.11" id="Num.34.11"/><sup>11</sup>and the border shall go down from Shepham to Riblah, on the east side of Ain; and the border shall go down, and shall reach unto the side of the sea of Chinnereth eastward; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.34.12" data-parsed="Num_34_12_0_0" data-passage="Num 34.12" id="Num.34.12"/><sup>12</sup>and the border shall go down to the Jordan,
and the goings out thereof shall be at the Salt Sea. This shall be your land according to the borders thereof round about.</p>
<p id="Num.34-p5">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.34.13" data-parsed="Num_34_13_0_0" data-passage="Num 34.13" id="Num.34.13"/><sup>13</sup>And Moses commanded the children of Israel, saying, This is the land which ye shall inherit by lot, which Jehovah hath commanded to give unto the nine tribes, and to the half-tribe; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.34.14" data-parsed="Num_34_14_0_0" data-passage="Num 34.14" id="Num.34.14"/><sup>14</sup>for the tribe of the children of Reuben according to their fathers' houses, and the tribe of the children of Gad according to their fathers' houses, have received, and the half-tribe of Manasseh have received, their inheritance: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.34.15" data-parsed="Num_34_15_0_0" data-passage="Num 34.15" id="Num.34.15"/><sup>15</sup>the two tribes and the half-tribe have received their inheritance beyond the Jordan at Jericho eastward, toward the sunrising.</p>
<p id="Num.34-p6">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.34.16" data-parsed="Num_34_16_0_0" data-passage="Num 34.16" id="Num.34.16"/><sup>16</sup>And Jehovah spake unto Moses, saying, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.34.17" data-parsed="Num_34_17_0_0" data-passage="Num 34.17" id="Num.34.17"/><sup>17</sup>These are the names of the men that shall divide the land unto you for inheritance: Eleazar the priest,
and Joshua the son of Nun. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.34.18" data-parsed="Num_34_18_0_0" data-passage="Num 34.18" id="Num.34.18"/><sup>18</sup>And ye shall take one prince of every tribe,
to divide the land for inheritance. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.34.19" data-parsed="Num_34_19_0_0" data-passage="Num 34.19" id="Num.34.19"/><sup>19</sup>And these are the names of the men:
Of the tribe of Judah, Caleb the son of Jephunneh. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.34.20" data-parsed="Num_34_20_0_0" data-passage="Num 34.20" id="Num.34.20"/><sup>20</sup>And of the tribe of the children of Simeon, Shemuel the son of Ammihud. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.34.21" data-parsed="Num_34_21_0_0" data-passage="Num 34.21" id="Num.34.21"/><sup>21</sup>Of the tribe of Benjamin, Elidad the son of Chislon. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.34.22" data-parsed="Num_34_22_0_0" data-passage="Num 34.22" id="Num.34.22"/><sup>22</sup>And of the tribe of the children of Dan a prince, Bukki the son of Jogli. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.34.23" data-parsed="Num_34_23_0_0" data-passage="Num 34.23" id="Num.34.23"/><sup>23</sup>Of the children of Joseph: of the tribe of the children of Manasseh a prince, Hanniel the son of Ephod.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.34.24" data-parsed="Num_34_24_0_0" data-passage="Num 34.24" id="Num.34.24"/><sup>24</sup>And of the tribe of the children of Ephraim a prince, Kemuel the son of Shiphtan. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.34.25" data-parsed="Num_34_25_0_0" data-passage="Num 34.25" id="Num.34.25"/><sup>25</sup>And of the tribe of the children of Zebulun a prince,
Elizaphan the son of Parnach. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.34.26" data-parsed="Num_34_26_0_0" data-passage="Num 34.26" id="Num.34.26"/><sup>26</sup>And of the tribe of the children of Issachar a prince, Paltiel the son of Azzan. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.34.27" data-parsed="Num_34_27_0_0" data-passage="Num 34.27" id="Num.34.27"/><sup>27</sup>And of the tribe of the children of Asher a prince, Ahihud the son of Shelomi. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.34.28" data-parsed="Num_34_28_0_0" data-passage="Num 34.28" id="Num.34.28"/><sup>28</sup>And of the tribe of the children of Naphtali a prince, Pedahel the son of Ammihud. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.34.29" data-parsed="Num_34_29_0_0" data-passage="Num 34.29" id="Num.34.29"/><sup>29</sup>These are they whom Jehovah commanded to divide the inheritance unto the children of Israel in the land of Canaan.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>