<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Numbers 9</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Numbers 9</span></div><div data-next="Num.10" data-prev="Num.8" data-progress="13.91%" data-shorttitle="" id="Num.9" title="Numbers 9">
<h2 id="Num.9-p0.1">9</h2>
<p id="Num.9-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.9.1" data-parsed="Num_9_1_0_0" data-passage="Num 9.1" id="Num.9.1"/><sup>1</sup>And Jehovah spake unto Moses in the wilderness of Sinai, in the first month of the second year after they were come out of the land of Egypt,
saying, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.9.2" data-parsed="Num_9_2_0_0" data-passage="Num 9.2" id="Num.9.2"/><sup>2</sup>Moreover let the children of Israel keep the passover in its appointed season. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.9.3" data-parsed="Num_9_3_0_0" data-passage="Num 9.3" id="Num.9.3"/><sup>3</sup>In the fourteenth day of this month, at even, ye shall keep it in its appointed season: according to all the statutes of it, and according to all the ordinances thereof, shall ye keep it. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.9.4" data-parsed="Num_9_4_0_0" data-passage="Num 9.4" id="Num.9.4"/><sup>4</sup>And Moses spake unto the children of Israel, that they should keep the passover.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.9.5" data-parsed="Num_9_5_0_0" data-passage="Num 9.5" id="Num.9.5"/><sup>5</sup>And they kept the passover in the first <i>month</i>, on the fourteenth day of the month, at even, in the wilderness of Sinai: according to all that Jehovah commanded Moses, so did the children of Israel. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.9.6" data-parsed="Num_9_6_0_0" data-passage="Num 9.6" id="Num.9.6"/><sup>6</sup>And there were certain men, who were unclean by reason of the dead body of a man, so that they could not keep the passover on that day: and they came before Moses and before Aaron on that day: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.9.7" data-parsed="Num_9_7_0_0" data-passage="Num 9.7" id="Num.9.7"/><sup>7</sup>and those men said unto him, We are unclean by reason of the dead body of a man: wherefore are we kept back, that we may not offer the oblation of Jehovah in its appointed season among the children of Israel? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.9.8" data-parsed="Num_9_8_0_0" data-passage="Num 9.8" id="Num.9.8"/><sup>8</sup>And Moses said unto them, Stay ye, that I may hear what Jehovah will command concerning you.</p>
<p id="Num.9-p2">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.9.9" data-parsed="Num_9_9_0_0" data-passage="Num 9.9" id="Num.9.9"/><sup>9</sup>And Jehovah spake unto Moses, saying, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.9.10" data-parsed="Num_9_10_0_0" data-passage="Num 9.10" id="Num.9.10"/><sup>10</sup>Speak unto the children of Israel, saying, If any man of you or of your generations shall be unclean by reason of a dead body, or be on a journey afar off, yet he shall keep the passover unto Jehovah. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.9.11" data-parsed="Num_9_11_0_0" data-passage="Num 9.11" id="Num.9.11"/><sup>11</sup>In the second month on the fourteenth day at even they shall keep it; they shall eat it with unleavened bread and bitter herbs: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.9.12" data-parsed="Num_9_12_0_0" data-passage="Num 9.12" id="Num.9.12"/><sup>12</sup>they shall leave none of it unto the morning, nor break a bone thereof: according to all the statute of the passover they shall keep it.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.9.13" data-parsed="Num_9_13_0_0" data-passage="Num 9.13" id="Num.9.13"/><sup>13</sup>But the man that is clean, and is not on a journey, and forbeareth to keep the passover, that soul shall be cut off from his people; because he offered not the oblation of Jehovah in its appointed season, that man shall bear his sin. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.9.14" data-parsed="Num_9_14_0_0" data-passage="Num 9.14" id="Num.9.14"/><sup>14</sup>And if a stranger shall sojourn among you, and will keep the passover unto Jehovah; according to the statute of the passover, and according to the ordinance thereof, so shall he do: ye shall have one statute, both for the sojourner, and for him that is born in the land.</p>
<p id="Num.9-p3">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.9.15" data-parsed="Num_9_15_0_0" data-passage="Num 9.15" id="Num.9.15"/><sup>15</sup>And on the day that the tabernacle was reared up the cloud covered the tabernacle, even the tent of the testimony: and at even it was upon the tabernacle as it were the appearance of fire, until morning. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.9.16" data-parsed="Num_9_16_0_0" data-passage="Num 9.16" id="Num.9.16"/><sup>16</sup>So it was alway: the cloud covered it, and the appearance of fire by night. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.9.17" data-parsed="Num_9_17_0_0" data-passage="Num 9.17" id="Num.9.17"/><sup>17</sup>And whenever the cloud was taken up from over the Tent, then after that the children of Israel journeyed: and in the place where the cloud abode, there the children of Israel encamped. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.9.18" data-parsed="Num_9_18_0_0" data-passage="Num 9.18" id="Num.9.18"/><sup>18</sup>At the commandment of Jehovah the children of Israel journeyed, and at the commandment of Jehovah they encamped: as long as the cloud abode upon the tabernacle they remained encamped. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.9.19" data-parsed="Num_9_19_0_0" data-passage="Num 9.19" id="Num.9.19"/><sup>19</sup>And when the cloud tarried upon the tabernacle many days,
then the children of Israel kept the charge of Jehovah, and journeyed not.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.9.20" data-parsed="Num_9_20_0_0" data-passage="Num 9.20" id="Num.9.20"/><sup>20</sup>And sometimes the cloud was a few days upon the tabernacle; then according to the commandment of Jehovah they remained encamped, and according to the commandment of Jehovah they journeyed. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.9.21" data-parsed="Num_9_21_0_0" data-passage="Num 9.21" id="Num.9.21"/><sup>21</sup>And sometimes the cloud was from evening until morning; and when the cloud was taken up in the morning, they journeyed: or <i>if it continued</i> by day and by night, when the cloud was taken up, they journeyed. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.9.22" data-parsed="Num_9_22_0_0" data-passage="Num 9.22" id="Num.9.22"/><sup>22</sup>Whether it were two days, or a month, or a year, that the cloud tarried upon the tabernacle, abiding thereon, the children of Israel remained encamped, and journeyed not; but when it was taken up, they journeyed. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Num.9.23" data-parsed="Num_9_23_0_0" data-passage="Num 9.23" id="Num.9.23"/><sup>23</sup>At the commandment of Jehovah they encamped, and at the commandment of Jehovah they journeyed: they kept the charge of Jehovah, at the commandment of Jehovah by Moses.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>