<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Philippians 2</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Philippians 2</span></div><div data-next="Phil.3" data-prev="Phil.1" data-progress="94.80%" data-shorttitle="" id="Phil.2" title="Philippians 2">
<h2 id="Phil.2-p0.1">2</h2>
<p id="Phil.2-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Phil.2.1" data-parsed="Phil_2_1_0_0" data-passage="Phil 2.1" id="Phil.2.1"/><sup>1</sup>If there is therefore any exhortation in Christ, if any consolation of love, if any fellowship of the Spirit, if any tender mercies and compassions, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Phil.2.2" data-parsed="Phil_2_2_0_0" data-passage="Phil 2.2" id="Phil.2.2"/><sup>2</sup>make full my joy, that ye be of the same mind, having the same love, being of one accord, of one mind; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Phil.2.3" data-parsed="Phil_2_3_0_0" data-passage="Phil 2.3" id="Phil.2.3"/><sup>3</sup><i>doing</i> nothing through faction or through vainglory, but in lowliness of mind each counting other better than himself; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Phil.2.4" data-parsed="Phil_2_4_0_0" data-passage="Phil 2.4" id="Phil.2.4"/><sup>4</sup>not looking each of you to his own things,
but each of you also to the things of others. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Phil.2.5" data-parsed="Phil_2_5_0_0" data-passage="Phil 2.5" id="Phil.2.5"/><sup>5</sup>Have this mind in you,
which was also in Christ Jesus: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Phil.2.6" data-parsed="Phil_2_6_0_0" data-passage="Phil 2.6" id="Phil.2.6"/><sup>6</sup>who, existing in the form of God,
counted not the being on an equality with God a thing to be grasped, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Phil.2.7" data-parsed="Phil_2_7_0_0" data-passage="Phil 2.7" id="Phil.2.7"/><sup>7</sup>but emptied himself, taking the form of a servant, being made in the likeness of men; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Phil.2.8" data-parsed="Phil_2_8_0_0" data-passage="Phil 2.8" id="Phil.2.8"/><sup>8</sup>and being found in fashion as a man, he humbled himself, becoming obedient <i>even</i> unto death, yea, the death of the cross. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Phil.2.9" data-parsed="Phil_2_9_0_0" data-passage="Phil 2.9" id="Phil.2.9"/><sup>9</sup>Wherefore also God highly exalted him, and gave unto him the name which is above every name; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Phil.2.10" data-parsed="Phil_2_10_0_0" data-passage="Phil 2.10" id="Phil.2.10"/><sup>10</sup>that in the name of Jesus every knee should bow, of <i>things</i> in heaven and <i>things</i> on earth and <i>things</i> under the earth, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Phil.2.11" data-parsed="Phil_2_11_0_0" data-passage="Phil 2.11" id="Phil.2.11"/><sup>11</sup>and that every tongue should confess that Jesus Christ is Lord, to the glory of God the Father. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Phil.2.12" data-parsed="Phil_2_12_0_0" data-passage="Phil 2.12" id="Phil.2.12"/><sup>12</sup>So then, my beloved, even as ye have always obeyed, not as in my presence only, but now much more in my absence, work out your own salvation with fear and trembling; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Phil.2.13" data-parsed="Phil_2_13_0_0" data-passage="Phil 2.13" id="Phil.2.13"/><sup>13</sup>for it is God who worketh in you both to will and to work, for his good pleasure.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Phil.2.14" data-parsed="Phil_2_14_0_0" data-passage="Phil 2.14" id="Phil.2.14"/><sup>14</sup>Do all things without murmurings and questionings: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Phil.2.15" data-parsed="Phil_2_15_0_0" data-passage="Phil 2.15" id="Phil.2.15"/><sup>15</sup>that ye may become blameless and harmless, children of God without blemish in the midst of a crooked and perverse generation, among whom ye are seen as lights in the world, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Phil.2.16" data-parsed="Phil_2_16_0_0" data-passage="Phil 2.16" id="Phil.2.16"/><sup>16</sup>holding forth the word of life; that I may have whereof to glory in the day of Christ, that I did not run in vain neither labor in vain.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Phil.2.17" data-parsed="Phil_2_17_0_0" data-passage="Phil 2.17" id="Phil.2.17"/><sup>17</sup>Yea, and if I am offered upon the sacrifice and service of your faith,
I joy, and rejoice with you all: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Phil.2.18" data-parsed="Phil_2_18_0_0" data-passage="Phil 2.18" id="Phil.2.18"/><sup>18</sup>and in the same manner do ye also joy,
and rejoice with me. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Phil.2.19" data-parsed="Phil_2_19_0_0" data-passage="Phil 2.19" id="Phil.2.19"/><sup>19</sup>But I hope in the Lord Jesus to send Timothy shortly unto you, that I also may be of good comfort, when I know your state.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Phil.2.20" data-parsed="Phil_2_20_0_0" data-passage="Phil 2.20" id="Phil.2.20"/><sup>20</sup>For I have no man likeminded, who will care truly for your state.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Phil.2.21" data-parsed="Phil_2_21_0_0" data-passage="Phil 2.21" id="Phil.2.21"/><sup>21</sup>For they all seek their own, not the things of Jesus Christ. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Phil.2.22" data-parsed="Phil_2_22_0_0" data-passage="Phil 2.22" id="Phil.2.22"/><sup>22</sup>But ye know the proof of him, that, as a child <i>serveth</i> a father,
<i>so</i> he served with me in furtherance of the gospel. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Phil.2.23" data-parsed="Phil_2_23_0_0" data-passage="Phil 2.23" id="Phil.2.23"/><sup>23</sup>Him therefore I hope to send forthwith, so soon as I shall see how it will go with me: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Phil.2.24" data-parsed="Phil_2_24_0_0" data-passage="Phil 2.24" id="Phil.2.24"/><sup>24</sup>but I trust in the Lord that I myself also shall come shortly.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Phil.2.25" data-parsed="Phil_2_25_0_0" data-passage="Phil 2.25" id="Phil.2.25"/><sup>25</sup>But I counted it necessary to send to you Epaphroditus, my brother and fellow-worker and fellow-soldier, and your messenger and minister to my need;

<span data-osisref="Bible:Phil.2.26" data-parsed="Phil_2_26_0_0" data-passage="Phil 2.26" id="Phil.2.26"/><sup>26</sup>since he longed after you all, and was sore troubled, because ye had heard that he was sick: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Phil.2.27" data-parsed="Phil_2_27_0_0" data-passage="Phil 2.27" id="Phil.2.27"/><sup>27</sup>for indeed he was sick nigh unto death: but God had mercy on him; and not on him only, but on me also, that I might not have sorrow upon sorrow. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Phil.2.28" data-parsed="Phil_2_28_0_0" data-passage="Phil 2.28" id="Phil.2.28"/><sup>28</sup>I have sent him therefore the more diligently,
that, when ye see him again, ye may rejoice, and that I may be the less sorrowful. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Phil.2.29" data-parsed="Phil_2_29_0_0" data-passage="Phil 2.29" id="Phil.2.29"/><sup>29</sup>Receive him therefore in the Lord with all joy; and hold such in honor: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Phil.2.30" data-parsed="Phil_2_30_0_0" data-passage="Phil 2.30" id="Phil.2.30"/><sup>30</sup>because for the work of Christ he came nigh unto death,
hazarding his life to supply that which was lacking in your service toward me.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>