<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Philippians 3</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Philippians 3</span></div><div data-next="Phil.4" data-prev="Phil.2" data-progress="94.87%" data-shorttitle="" id="Phil.3" title="Philippians 3">
<h2 id="Phil.3-p0.1">3</h2>
<p id="Phil.3-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Phil.3.1" data-parsed="Phil_3_1_0_0" data-passage="Phil 3.1" id="Phil.3.1"/><sup>1</sup>Finally, my brethren, rejoice in the Lord. To write the same things to you, to me indeed is not irksome, but for you it is safe. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Phil.3.2" data-parsed="Phil_3_2_0_0" data-passage="Phil 3.2" id="Phil.3.2"/><sup>2</sup>Beware of the dogs, beware of the evil workers, beware of the concision: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Phil.3.3" data-parsed="Phil_3_3_0_0" data-passage="Phil 3.3" id="Phil.3.3"/><sup>3</sup>for we are the circumcision, who worship by the Spirit of God, and glory in Christ Jesus, and have no confidence in the flesh: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Phil.3.4" data-parsed="Phil_3_4_0_0" data-passage="Phil 3.4" id="Phil.3.4"/><sup>4</sup>though I myself might have confidence even in the flesh: if any other man thinketh to have confidence in the flesh, I yet more: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Phil.3.5" data-parsed="Phil_3_5_0_0" data-passage="Phil 3.5" id="Phil.3.5"/><sup>5</sup>circumcised the eighth day, of the stock of Israel, of the tribe of Benjamin, a Hebrew of Hebrews; as touching the law, a Pharisee; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Phil.3.6" data-parsed="Phil_3_6_0_0" data-passage="Phil 3.6" id="Phil.3.6"/><sup>6</sup>as touching zeal, persecuting the church; as touching the righteousness which is in the law, found blameless. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Phil.3.7" data-parsed="Phil_3_7_0_0" data-passage="Phil 3.7" id="Phil.3.7"/><sup>7</sup>Howbeit what things were gain to me, these have I counted loss for Christ. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Phil.3.8" data-parsed="Phil_3_8_0_0" data-passage="Phil 3.8" id="Phil.3.8"/><sup>8</sup>Yea verily, and I count all things to be loss for the excellency of the knowledge of Christ Jesus my Lord: for whom I suffered the loss of all things, and do count them but refuse, that I may gain Christ, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Phil.3.9" data-parsed="Phil_3_9_0_0" data-passage="Phil 3.9" id="Phil.3.9"/><sup>9</sup>and be found in him, not having a righteousness of mine own, <i>even</i> that which is of the law, but that which is through faith in Christ, the righteousness which is from God by faith: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Phil.3.10" data-parsed="Phil_3_10_0_0" data-passage="Phil 3.10" id="Phil.3.10"/><sup>10</sup>that I may know him, and the power of his resurrection, and the fellowship of his sufferings, becoming conformed unto his death; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Phil.3.11" data-parsed="Phil_3_11_0_0" data-passage="Phil 3.11" id="Phil.3.11"/><sup>11</sup>if by any means I may attain unto the resurrection from the dead. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Phil.3.12" data-parsed="Phil_3_12_0_0" data-passage="Phil 3.12" id="Phil.3.12"/><sup>12</sup>Not that I have already obtained, or am already made perfect: but I press on, if so be that I may lay hold on that for which also I was laid hold on by Christ Jesus. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Phil.3.13" data-parsed="Phil_3_13_0_0" data-passage="Phil 3.13" id="Phil.3.13"/><sup>13</sup>Brethren, I could not myself yet to have laid hold: but one thing <i>I do</i>, forgetting the things which are behind, and stretching forward to the things which are before, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Phil.3.14" data-parsed="Phil_3_14_0_0" data-passage="Phil 3.14" id="Phil.3.14"/><sup>14</sup>I press on toward the goal unto the prize of the high calling of God in Christ Jesus. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Phil.3.15" data-parsed="Phil_3_15_0_0" data-passage="Phil 3.15" id="Phil.3.15"/><sup>15</sup>Let us therefore,
as many as are perfect, be thus minded: and if in anything ye are otherwise minded, this also shall God reveal unto you: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Phil.3.16" data-parsed="Phil_3_16_0_0" data-passage="Phil 3.16" id="Phil.3.16"/><sup>16</sup>only, whereunto we have attained, by that same <i>rule</i> let us walk. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Phil.3.17" data-parsed="Phil_3_17_0_0" data-passage="Phil 3.17" id="Phil.3.17"/><sup>17</sup>Brethren, be ye imitators together of me, and mark them that so walk even as ye have us for an ensample. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Phil.3.18" data-parsed="Phil_3_18_0_0" data-passage="Phil 3.18" id="Phil.3.18"/><sup>18</sup>For many walk, of whom I told you often, and now tell you even weeping, <i>that they are</i> the enemies of the cross of Christ:

<span data-osisref="Bible:Phil.3.19" data-parsed="Phil_3_19_0_0" data-passage="Phil 3.19" id="Phil.3.19"/><sup>19</sup>whose end is perdition, whose god is the belly, and <i>whose</i> glory is in their shame, who mind earthly things. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Phil.3.20" data-parsed="Phil_3_20_0_0" data-passage="Phil 3.20" id="Phil.3.20"/><sup>20</sup>For our citizenship is in heaven; whence also we wait for a Saviour, the Lord Jesus Christ: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Phil.3.21" data-parsed="Phil_3_21_0_0" data-passage="Phil 3.21" id="Phil.3.21"/><sup>21</sup>who shall fashion anew the body of our humiliation, <i>that it may be</i>
conformed to the body of his glory, according to the working whereby he is able even to subject all things unto himself.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>