<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Philippians 4</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Philippians 4</span></div><div data-next="Col" data-prev="Phil.3" data-progress="94.93%" data-shorttitle="" id="Phil.4" title="Philippians 4">
<h2 id="Phil.4-p0.1">4</h2>
<p id="Phil.4-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Phil.4.1" data-parsed="Phil_4_1_0_0" data-passage="Phil 4.1" id="Phil.4.1"/><sup>1</sup>Wherefore, my brethren beloved and longed for, my joy and crown, so stand fast in the Lord, my beloved. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Phil.4.2" data-parsed="Phil_4_2_0_0" data-passage="Phil 4.2" id="Phil.4.2"/><sup>2</sup>I exhort Euodia, and I exhort Syntyche, to be of the same mind in the Lord. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Phil.4.3" data-parsed="Phil_4_3_0_0" data-passage="Phil 4.3" id="Phil.4.3"/><sup>3</sup>Yea, I beseech thee also,
true yokefellow, help these women, for they labored with me in the gospel,
with Clement also, and the rest of my fellow-workers, whose names are in the book of life. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Phil.4.4" data-parsed="Phil_4_4_0_0" data-passage="Phil 4.4" id="Phil.4.4"/><sup>4</sup>Rejoice in the Lord always: again I will say, Rejoice.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Phil.4.5" data-parsed="Phil_4_5_0_0" data-passage="Phil 4.5" id="Phil.4.5"/><sup>5</sup>Let your forbearance be known unto all men. The Lord is at hand. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Phil.4.6" data-parsed="Phil_4_6_0_0" data-passage="Phil 4.6" id="Phil.4.6"/><sup>6</sup>In nothing be anxious; but in everything by prayer and supplication with thanksgiving let your requests be made known unto God. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Phil.4.7" data-parsed="Phil_4_7_0_0" data-passage="Phil 4.7" id="Phil.4.7"/><sup>7</sup>And the peace of God, which passeth all understanding, shall guard your hearts and your thoughts in Christ Jesus. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Phil.4.8" data-parsed="Phil_4_8_0_0" data-passage="Phil 4.8" id="Phil.4.8"/><sup>8</sup>Finally, brethren, whatsoever things are true,
whatsoever things are honorable, whatsoever things are just, whatsoever things are pure, whatsoever things are lovely, whatsoever things are of good report; if there be any virtue, and if there be any praise, think on these things. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Phil.4.9" data-parsed="Phil_4_9_0_0" data-passage="Phil 4.9" id="Phil.4.9"/><sup>9</sup>The things which ye both learned and received and heard and saw in me, these things do: and the God of peace shall be with you. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Phil.4.10" data-parsed="Phil_4_10_0_0" data-passage="Phil 4.10" id="Phil.4.10"/><sup>10</sup>But I rejoice in the Lord greatly, that now at length ye have revived your thought for me; wherein ye did indeed take thought, but ye lacked opportunity.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Phil.4.11" data-parsed="Phil_4_11_0_0" data-passage="Phil 4.11" id="Phil.4.11"/><sup>11</sup>Not that I speak in respect of want: for I have learned, in whatsoever state I am, therein to be content. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Phil.4.12" data-parsed="Phil_4_12_0_0" data-passage="Phil 4.12" id="Phil.4.12"/><sup>12</sup>I know how to be abased, and I know also how to abound: in everything and in all things have I learned the secret both to be filled and to be hungry, both to abound and to be in want. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Phil.4.13" data-parsed="Phil_4_13_0_0" data-passage="Phil 4.13" id="Phil.4.13"/><sup>13</sup>I can do all things in him that strengtheneth me. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Phil.4.14" data-parsed="Phil_4_14_0_0" data-passage="Phil 4.14" id="Phil.4.14"/><sup>14</sup>Howbeit ye did well that ye had fellowship with my affliction. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Phil.4.15" data-parsed="Phil_4_15_0_0" data-passage="Phil 4.15" id="Phil.4.15"/><sup>15</sup>And ye yourselves also know,
ye Philippians, that in the beginning of the gospel, when I departed from Macedonia, no church had fellowship with me in the matter of giving and receiving but ye only; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Phil.4.16" data-parsed="Phil_4_16_0_0" data-passage="Phil 4.16" id="Phil.4.16"/><sup>16</sup>for even in Thessalonica ye sent once and again unto my need. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Phil.4.17" data-parsed="Phil_4_17_0_0" data-passage="Phil 4.17" id="Phil.4.17"/><sup>17</sup>Not that I seek for the gift; but I seek for the fruit that increaseth to your account. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Phil.4.18" data-parsed="Phil_4_18_0_0" data-passage="Phil 4.18" id="Phil.4.18"/><sup>18</sup>But I have all things, and abound: I am filled, having received from Epaphroditus the things <i>that came</i>
from you, and odor of a sweet smell, a sacrifice acceptable, well-pleasing to God. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Phil.4.19" data-parsed="Phil_4_19_0_0" data-passage="Phil 4.19" id="Phil.4.19"/><sup>19</sup>And my God shall supply every need of yours according to his riches in glory in Christ Jesus. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Phil.4.20" data-parsed="Phil_4_20_0_0" data-passage="Phil 4.20" id="Phil.4.20"/><sup>20</sup>Now unto our God and Father <i>be</i>
the glory for ever and ever. Amen. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Phil.4.21" data-parsed="Phil_4_21_0_0" data-passage="Phil 4.21" id="Phil.4.21"/><sup>21</sup>Salute every saint in Christ Jesus.
The brethren that are with me salute you. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Phil.4.22" data-parsed="Phil_4_22_0_0" data-passage="Phil 4.22" id="Phil.4.22"/><sup>22</sup>All the saints salute you,
especially they that are of Caesar's household. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Phil.4.23" data-parsed="Phil_4_23_0_0" data-passage="Phil 4.23" id="Phil.4.23"/><sup>23</sup>The grace of the Lord Jesus Christ be with your spirit.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>