<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Revelation 14</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Revelation 14</span></div><div data-next="Rev.15" data-prev="Rev.13" data-progress="99.35%" data-shorttitle="" id="Rev.14" title="Revelation 14">
<h2 id="Rev.14-p0.1">14</h2>
<p id="Rev.14-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rev.14.1" data-parsed="Rev_14_1_0_0" data-passage="Rev 14.1" id="Rev.14.1"/><sup>1</sup>And I saw, and behold, the Lamb standing on the mount Zion, and with him a hundred and forty and four thousand, having his name, and the name of his Father, written on their foreheads. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rev.14.2" data-parsed="Rev_14_2_0_0" data-passage="Rev 14.2" id="Rev.14.2"/><sup>2</sup>And I heard a voice from heaven, as the voice of many waters, and as the voice of a great thunder: and the voice which I heard <i>was</i> as <i>the voice</i> of harpers harping with their harps: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rev.14.3" data-parsed="Rev_14_3_0_0" data-passage="Rev 14.3" id="Rev.14.3"/><sup>3</sup>and they sing as it were a new song before the throne,
and before the four living creatures and the elders: and no man could learn the song save the hundred and forty and four thousand, <i>even</i> they that had been purchased out of the earth. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rev.14.4" data-parsed="Rev_14_4_0_0" data-passage="Rev 14.4" id="Rev.14.4"/><sup>4</sup>These are they that were not defiled with women; for they are virgins. These <i>are</i> they that follow the Lamb whithersoever he goeth. These were purchased from among men, <i>to be</i> the firstfruits unto God and unto the Lamb. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rev.14.5" data-parsed="Rev_14_5_0_0" data-passage="Rev 14.5" id="Rev.14.5"/><sup>5</sup>And in their mouth was found no lie: they are without blemish. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rev.14.6" data-parsed="Rev_14_6_0_0" data-passage="Rev 14.6" id="Rev.14.6"/><sup>6</sup>And I saw another angel flying in mid heaven, having eternal good tidings to proclaim unto them that dwell on the earth, and unto every nation and tribe and tongue and people;

<span data-osisref="Bible:Rev.14.7" data-parsed="Rev_14_7_0_0" data-passage="Rev 14.7" id="Rev.14.7"/><sup>7</sup>and he saith with a great voice, Fear God, and give him glory; for the hour of his judgment is come: and worship him that made the heaven and the earth and sea and fountains of waters. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rev.14.8" data-parsed="Rev_14_8_0_0" data-passage="Rev 14.8" id="Rev.14.8"/><sup>8</sup>And another, a second angel,
followed, saying, Fallen, fallen is Babylon the great, that hath made all the nations to drink of the wine of the wrath of her fornication. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rev.14.9" data-parsed="Rev_14_9_0_0" data-passage="Rev 14.9" id="Rev.14.9"/><sup>9</sup>And another angel, a third, followed them, saying with a great voice, If any man worshippeth the beast and his image, and receiveth a mark on his forehead, or upon his hand, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rev.14.10" data-parsed="Rev_14_10_0_0" data-passage="Rev 14.10" id="Rev.14.10"/><sup>10</sup>he also shall drink of the wine of the wrath of God,
which is prepared unmixed in the cup of his anger; and he shall be tormented with fire and brimstone in the presence of the holy angels, and in the presence of the Lamb: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rev.14.11" data-parsed="Rev_14_11_0_0" data-passage="Rev 14.11" id="Rev.14.11"/><sup>11</sup>and the smoke of their torment goeth up for ever and ever; and they have no rest day and night, they that worship the beast and his image, and whoso receiveth the mark of his name. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rev.14.12" data-parsed="Rev_14_12_0_0" data-passage="Rev 14.12" id="Rev.14.12"/><sup>12</sup>Here is the patience of the saints, they that keep the commandments of God, and the faith of Jesus. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rev.14.13" data-parsed="Rev_14_13_0_0" data-passage="Rev 14.13" id="Rev.14.13"/><sup>13</sup>And I heard the voice from heaven saying, Write, Blessed are the dead who die in the Lord from henceforth: yea, saith the Spirit, that they may rest from their labors; for their works follow with them. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rev.14.14" data-parsed="Rev_14_14_0_0" data-passage="Rev 14.14" id="Rev.14.14"/><sup>14</sup>And I saw, and behold, a white cloud; and on the cloud <i>I saw</i> one sitting like unto a son of man, having on his head a golden crown, and in his hand sharp sickle. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rev.14.15" data-parsed="Rev_14_15_0_0" data-passage="Rev 14.15" id="Rev.14.15"/><sup>15</sup>And another angel came out from the temple, crying with a great voice to him that sat on the cloud, Send forth thy sickle, and reap:
for the hour to reap is come; for the harvest of the earth is ripe. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rev.14.16" data-parsed="Rev_14_16_0_0" data-passage="Rev 14.16" id="Rev.14.16"/><sup>16</sup>And he that sat on the cloud cast his sickle upon the earth; and the earth was reaped. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rev.14.17" data-parsed="Rev_14_17_0_0" data-passage="Rev 14.17" id="Rev.14.17"/><sup>17</sup>Another angel came out from the temple which is in heaven, he also having a sharp sickle. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rev.14.18" data-parsed="Rev_14_18_0_0" data-passage="Rev 14.18" id="Rev.14.18"/><sup>18</sup>And another angel came out from the altar,
he that hath power over fire; and he called with a great voice to him that had the sharp sickle, saying, Send forth thy sharp sickle, and gather the clusters of the vine of the earth; for her grapes are fully ripe. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rev.14.19" data-parsed="Rev_14_19_0_0" data-passage="Rev 14.19" id="Rev.14.19"/><sup>19</sup>And the angel cast his sickle into the earth, and gathered the vintage of the earth, and cast it into the winepress, the great <i>winepress</i>, of the wrath of God. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rev.14.20" data-parsed="Rev_14_20_0_0" data-passage="Rev 14.20" id="Rev.14.20"/><sup>20</sup>And the winepress are trodden without the city, and there came out blood from the winepress, even unto the bridles of the horses, as far as a thousand and six hundred furlongs.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>