<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Revelation 11</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Revelation 11</span></div><div data-next="Rev.12" data-prev="Rev.10" data-progress="99.15%" data-shorttitle="" id="Rev.11" title="Revelation 11">
<h2 id="Rev.11-p0.1">11</h2>
<p id="Rev.11-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rev.11.1" data-parsed="Rev_11_1_0_0" data-passage="Rev 11.1" id="Rev.11.1"/><sup>1</sup>And there was given me a reed like unto a rod: and one said, Rise,
and measure the temple of God, and the altar, and them that worship therein.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Rev.11.2" data-parsed="Rev_11_2_0_0" data-passage="Rev 11.2" id="Rev.11.2"/><sup>2</sup>And the court which is without the temple leave without, and measure it not; for it hath been given unto the nations: and the holy city shall they tread under foot forty and two months. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rev.11.3" data-parsed="Rev_11_3_0_0" data-passage="Rev 11.3" id="Rev.11.3"/><sup>3</sup>And I will give unto my two witnesses, and they shall prophesy a thousand two hundred and threescore days, clothed in sackcloth. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rev.11.4" data-parsed="Rev_11_4_0_0" data-passage="Rev 11.4" id="Rev.11.4"/><sup>4</sup>These are the two olive trees and the two candlesticks, standing before the Lord of the earth. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rev.11.5" data-parsed="Rev_11_5_0_0" data-passage="Rev 11.5" id="Rev.11.5"/><sup>5</sup>And if any man desireth to hurt them, fire proceedeth out of their mouth and devoureth their enemies; and if any man shall desire to hurt them, in this manner must he be killed. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rev.11.6" data-parsed="Rev_11_6_0_0" data-passage="Rev 11.6" id="Rev.11.6"/><sup>6</sup>These have the power to shut the heaven, that it rain not during the days of their prophecy: and they have power over the waters to turn them into blood, and to smite the earth with every plague, as often as they shall desire. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rev.11.7" data-parsed="Rev_11_7_0_0" data-passage="Rev 11.7" id="Rev.11.7"/><sup>7</sup>And when they shall have finished their testimony, the beast that cometh up out of the abyss shall make war with them, and overcome them,
and kill them. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rev.11.8" data-parsed="Rev_11_8_0_0" data-passage="Rev 11.8" id="Rev.11.8"/><sup>8</sup>And their dead bodies <i>lie</i> in the street of the great city, which spiritually is called Sodom and Egypt, where also their Lord was crucified. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rev.11.9" data-parsed="Rev_11_9_0_0" data-passage="Rev 11.9" id="Rev.11.9"/><sup>9</sup>And from among the peoples and tribes and tongues and nations do <i>men</i> look upon their dead bodies three days and a half,
and suffer not their dead bodies to be laid in a tomb. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rev.11.10" data-parsed="Rev_11_10_0_0" data-passage="Rev 11.10" id="Rev.11.10"/><sup>10</sup>And they that dwell on the earth rejoice over them, and make merry; and they shall send gifts one to another; because these two prophets tormented them that dwell on the earth. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rev.11.11" data-parsed="Rev_11_11_0_0" data-passage="Rev 11.11" id="Rev.11.11"/><sup>11</sup>And after the three days and a half the breath of life from God entered into them, and they stood upon their feet; and great fear fell upon them that beheld them. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rev.11.12" data-parsed="Rev_11_12_0_0" data-passage="Rev 11.12" id="Rev.11.12"/><sup>12</sup>And they heard a great voice from heaven saying unto them, Come up hither. And they went up into heaven in the cloud;
and their enemies beheld them. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rev.11.13" data-parsed="Rev_11_13_0_0" data-passage="Rev 11.13" id="Rev.11.13"/><sup>13</sup>And in that hour there was a great earthquake, and the tenth part of the city fell; and there were killed in the earthquake seven thousand persons: and the rest were affrighted, and gave glory to the God of heaven. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rev.11.14" data-parsed="Rev_11_14_0_0" data-passage="Rev 11.14" id="Rev.11.14"/><sup>14</sup>The second Woe is past: behold, the third Woe cometh quickly. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rev.11.15" data-parsed="Rev_11_15_0_0" data-passage="Rev 11.15" id="Rev.11.15"/><sup>15</sup>And the seventh angel sounded; and there followed great voices in heaven, and they said,</p>
<p id="Rev.11-p2">
The kingdom of the world is become <i>the kingdom</i> of our Lord, and of his Christ: and he shall reign for ever and ever.</p>
<p id="Rev.11-p3">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rev.11.16" data-parsed="Rev_11_16_0_0" data-passage="Rev 11.16" id="Rev.11.16"/><sup>16</sup>And the four and twenty elders, who sit before God on their thrones,
fell upon their faces and worshipped God, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rev.11.17" data-parsed="Rev_11_17_0_0" data-passage="Rev 11.17" id="Rev.11.17"/><sup>17</sup>saying,</p>
<p id="Rev.11-p4">
We give thee thanks, O Lord God, the Almighty, who art and who wast; because thou hast taken thy great power, and didst reign. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rev.11.18" data-parsed="Rev_11_18_0_0" data-passage="Rev 11.18" id="Rev.11.18"/><sup>18</sup>And the nations were wroth, and thy wrath came, and the time of the dead to be judged, and <i>the time</i> to give their reward to thy servants the prophets, and to the saints, and to them that fear thy name, the small and the great; and to destroy them that destroy the earth.</p>
<p id="Rev.11-p5">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rev.11.19" data-parsed="Rev_11_19_0_0" data-passage="Rev 11.19" id="Rev.11.19"/><sup>19</sup>And there was opened the temple of God that is in heaven; and there was seen in his temple the ark of his covenant; and there followed lightnings,
and voices, and thunders, and an earthquake, and great hail.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>