<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Revelation 15</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Revelation 15</span></div><div data-next="Rev.16" data-prev="Rev.14" data-progress="99.43%" data-shorttitle="" id="Rev.15" title="Revelation 15">
<h2 id="Rev.15-p0.1">15</h2>
<p id="Rev.15-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rev.15.1" data-parsed="Rev_15_1_0_0" data-passage="Rev 15.1" id="Rev.15.1"/><sup>1</sup>And I saw another sign in heaven, great and marvellous, seven angels having seven plagues, <i>which are</i> the last, for in them is finished the wrath of God. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rev.15.2" data-parsed="Rev_15_2_0_0" data-passage="Rev 15.2" id="Rev.15.2"/><sup>2</sup>And I saw as it were a sea of glass mingled with fire; and them that come off victorious from the beast, and from his image, and from the number of his name, standing by the sea of glass, having harps of God. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rev.15.3" data-parsed="Rev_15_3_0_0" data-passage="Rev 15.3" id="Rev.15.3"/><sup>3</sup>And they sing the song of Moses the servant of God, and the song of the Lamb, saying,</p>
<p id="Rev.15-p2">
Great and marvellous are thy works, O Lord God, the Almighty; righteous and true are thy ways, thou King of the ages. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rev.15.4" data-parsed="Rev_15_4_0_0" data-passage="Rev 15.4" id="Rev.15.4"/><sup>4</sup>Who shall not fear, O Lord,
and glorify thy name? for thou only art holy; for all the nations shall come and worship before thee; for thy righteous acts have been made manifest.</p>
<p id="Rev.15-p3">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rev.15.5" data-parsed="Rev_15_5_0_0" data-passage="Rev 15.5" id="Rev.15.5"/><sup>5</sup>And after these things I saw, and the temple of the tabernacle of the testimony in heaven was opened: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rev.15.6" data-parsed="Rev_15_6_0_0" data-passage="Rev 15.6" id="Rev.15.6"/><sup>6</sup>and there came out from the temple the seven angels that had the seven plagues, arrayed with <i>precious</i> stone,
pure <i>and</i> bright, and girt about their breasts with golden girdles.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Rev.15.7" data-parsed="Rev_15_7_0_0" data-passage="Rev 15.7" id="Rev.15.7"/><sup>7</sup>And one of the four living creatures gave unto the seven angels seven golden bowls full of the wrath of God, who liveth for ever and ever. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rev.15.8" data-parsed="Rev_15_8_0_0" data-passage="Rev 15.8" id="Rev.15.8"/><sup>8</sup>And the temple was filled with smoke from the glory of God, and from his power;
and none was able to enter into the temple, till the seven plagues of the seven angels should be finished.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>