<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Revelation 2</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Revelation 2</span></div><div data-next="Rev.3" data-prev="Rev.1" data-progress="98.58%" data-shorttitle="" id="Rev.2" title="Revelation 2">
<h2 id="Rev.2-p0.1">2</h2>
<p id="Rev.2-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rev.2.1" data-parsed="Rev_2_1_0_0" data-passage="Rev 2.1" id="Rev.2.1"/><sup>1</sup>To the angel of the church in Ephesus write: These things saith he that holdeth the seven stars in his right hand, he that walketh in the midst of the seven golden candlesticks: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rev.2.2" data-parsed="Rev_2_2_0_0" data-passage="Rev 2.2" id="Rev.2.2"/><sup>2</sup>I know thy works, and thy toil and patience, and that thou canst not bear evil men, and didst try them that call themselves apostles, and they are not, and didst find them false; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rev.2.3" data-parsed="Rev_2_3_0_0" data-passage="Rev 2.3" id="Rev.2.3"/><sup>3</sup>and thou hast patience and didst bear for my name's sake, and hast not grown weary. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rev.2.4" data-parsed="Rev_2_4_0_0" data-passage="Rev 2.4" id="Rev.2.4"/><sup>4</sup>But I have <i>this</i> against thee, that thou didst leave thy first love. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rev.2.5" data-parsed="Rev_2_5_0_0" data-passage="Rev 2.5" id="Rev.2.5"/><sup>5</sup>Remember therefore whence thou art fallen, and repent and do the first works; or else I come to thee, and will move thy candlestick out of its place, except thou repent. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rev.2.6" data-parsed="Rev_2_6_0_0" data-passage="Rev 2.6" id="Rev.2.6"/><sup>6</sup>But this thou hast, that thou hatest the works of the Nicolaitans, which I also hate. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rev.2.7" data-parsed="Rev_2_7_0_0" data-passage="Rev 2.7" id="Rev.2.7"/><sup>7</sup>He that hath an ear, let him hear what the Spirit saith to the churches. To him that overcometh, to him will I give to eat of the tree of life, which is in the Paradise of God.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Rev.2.8" data-parsed="Rev_2_8_0_0" data-passage="Rev 2.8" id="Rev.2.8"/><sup>8</sup>And to the angel of the church in Smyrna write: These things saith the first and the last, who was dead, and lived <i>again</i>: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rev.2.9" data-parsed="Rev_2_9_0_0" data-passage="Rev 2.9" id="Rev.2.9"/><sup>9</sup>I know thy tribulation, and thy poverty (but thou art rich), and the blasphemy of them that say they are Jews, and they art not, but are a synagogue of Satan.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Rev.2.10" data-parsed="Rev_2_10_0_0" data-passage="Rev 2.10" id="Rev.2.10"/><sup>10</sup>Fear not the things which thou art about to suffer: behold, the devil is about to cast some of you into prison, that ye may be tried; and ye shall have tribulation ten days. Be thou faithful unto death, and I will give thee the crown of life. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rev.2.11" data-parsed="Rev_2_11_0_0" data-passage="Rev 2.11" id="Rev.2.11"/><sup>11</sup>He that hath an ear, let him hear what the Spirit saith to the churches. He that overcometh shall not be hurt of the second death. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rev.2.12" data-parsed="Rev_2_12_0_0" data-passage="Rev 2.12" id="Rev.2.12"/><sup>12</sup>and to the angel of the church in Pergamum write: These things saith he that hath the sharp two-edged sword: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rev.2.13" data-parsed="Rev_2_13_0_0" data-passage="Rev 2.13" id="Rev.2.13"/><sup>13</sup>I know where thou dwellest, <i>even</i> where Satan's throne is; and thou holdest fast my name, and didst not deny my faith, even in the days of Antipas my witness, my faithful one, who was killed among you, where Satan dwelleth. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rev.2.14" data-parsed="Rev_2_14_0_0" data-passage="Rev 2.14" id="Rev.2.14"/><sup>14</sup>But I have a few things against thee, because thou hast there some that hold the teaching of Balaam, who taught Balak to cast a stumblingblock before the children of Israel, to eat things sacrificed to idols, and to commit fornication. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rev.2.15" data-parsed="Rev_2_15_0_0" data-passage="Rev 2.15" id="Rev.2.15"/><sup>15</sup>So hast thou also some that hold the teaching of the Nicolaitans in like manner. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rev.2.16" data-parsed="Rev_2_16_0_0" data-passage="Rev 2.16" id="Rev.2.16"/><sup>16</sup>Repent therefore; or else I come to thee quickly, and I will make war against them with the sword of my mouth.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Rev.2.17" data-parsed="Rev_2_17_0_0" data-passage="Rev 2.17" id="Rev.2.17"/><sup>17</sup>He that hath an ear, let him hear what the Spirit saith to the churches. To him that overcometh, to him will I give of the hidden manna, and I will give him a white stone, and upon the stone a new name written, which no one knoweth but he that receiveth it. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rev.2.18" data-parsed="Rev_2_18_0_0" data-passage="Rev 2.18" id="Rev.2.18"/><sup>18</sup>And to the angel of the church in Thyatira write: These things saith the Son of God, who hath his eyes like a flame of fire, and his feet are like unto burnished brass: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rev.2.19" data-parsed="Rev_2_19_0_0" data-passage="Rev 2.19" id="Rev.2.19"/><sup>19</sup>I know thy works, and thy love and faith and ministry and patience, and that thy last works are more than the first. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rev.2.20" data-parsed="Rev_2_20_0_0" data-passage="Rev 2.20" id="Rev.2.20"/><sup>20</sup>But I have <i>this</i> against thee,
that thou sufferest the woman Jezebel, who calleth herself a prophetess; and she teacheth and seduceth my servants to commit fornication, and to eat things sacrificed to idols. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rev.2.21" data-parsed="Rev_2_21_0_0" data-passage="Rev 2.21" id="Rev.2.21"/><sup>21</sup>And I gave her time that she should repent;
and she willeth not to repent of her fornication. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rev.2.22" data-parsed="Rev_2_22_0_0" data-passage="Rev 2.22" id="Rev.2.22"/><sup>22</sup>Behold, I cast her into a bed, and them that commit adultery with her into great tribulation,
except they repent of her works. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rev.2.23" data-parsed="Rev_2_23_0_0" data-passage="Rev 2.23" id="Rev.2.23"/><sup>23</sup>And I will kill her children with death; and all the churches shall know that I am he that searcheth the reins and hearts: and I will give unto each one of you according to your works.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Rev.2.24" data-parsed="Rev_2_24_0_0" data-passage="Rev 2.24" id="Rev.2.24"/><sup>24</sup>But to you I say, to the rest that are in Thyatira, as many as have not this teaching, who know not the deep things of Satan, as they are wont to say; I cast upon you none other burden. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rev.2.25" data-parsed="Rev_2_25_0_0" data-passage="Rev 2.25" id="Rev.2.25"/><sup>25</sup>Nevertheless that which ye have, hold fast till I come. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rev.2.26" data-parsed="Rev_2_26_0_0" data-passage="Rev 2.26" id="Rev.2.26"/><sup>26</sup>And he that overcometh, and he that keepeth my works unto the end, to him will I give authority over the nations:

<span data-osisref="Bible:Rev.2.27" data-parsed="Rev_2_27_0_0" data-passage="Rev 2.27" id="Rev.2.27"/><sup>27</sup>and he shall rule them with a rod of iron, as the vessels of the potter are broken to shivers; as I also have received of my Father: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rev.2.28" data-parsed="Rev_2_28_0_0" data-passage="Rev 2.28" id="Rev.2.28"/><sup>28</sup>and I will give him the morning star. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rev.2.29" data-parsed="Rev_2_29_0_0" data-passage="Rev 2.29" id="Rev.2.29"/><sup>29</sup>He that hath an ear, let him hear what the Spirit saith to the churches.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>