<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Revelation 5</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Revelation 5</span></div><div data-next="Rev.6" data-prev="Rev.4" data-progress="98.80%" data-shorttitle="" id="Rev.5" title="Revelation 5">
<h2 id="Rev.5-p0.1">5</h2>
<p id="Rev.5-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rev.5.1" data-parsed="Rev_5_1_0_0" data-passage="Rev 5.1" id="Rev.5.1"/><sup>1</sup>And I saw in the right hand of him that sat on the throne a book written within and on the back, close sealed with seven seals. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rev.5.2" data-parsed="Rev_5_2_0_0" data-passage="Rev 5.2" id="Rev.5.2"/><sup>2</sup>And I saw a strong angel proclaiming with a great voice, Who is worthy to open the book,
and to loose the seals thereof? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rev.5.3" data-parsed="Rev_5_3_0_0" data-passage="Rev 5.3" id="Rev.5.3"/><sup>3</sup>And no one in the heaven, or on the earth, or under the earth, was able to open the book, or to look thereon.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Rev.5.4" data-parsed="Rev_5_4_0_0" data-passage="Rev 5.4" id="Rev.5.4"/><sup>4</sup>And I wept much, because no one was found worthy to open the book, or to look thereon: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rev.5.5" data-parsed="Rev_5_5_0_0" data-passage="Rev 5.5" id="Rev.5.5"/><sup>5</sup>and one of the elders saith unto me, Weep not; behold, the Lion that is of the tribe of Judah, the Root of David, hath overcome to open the book and the seven seals thereof. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rev.5.6" data-parsed="Rev_5_6_0_0" data-passage="Rev 5.6" id="Rev.5.6"/><sup>6</sup>And I saw in the midst of the throne and of the four living creatures, and in the midst of the elders, a Lamb standing, as though it had been slain, having seven horns, and seven eyes, which are the seven Spirits of God, sent forth into all the earth.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Rev.5.7" data-parsed="Rev_5_7_0_0" data-passage="Rev 5.7" id="Rev.5.7"/><sup>7</sup>And he came, and he taketh <i>it</i> out of the right hand of him that sat on the throne. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rev.5.8" data-parsed="Rev_5_8_0_0" data-passage="Rev 5.8" id="Rev.5.8"/><sup>8</sup>And when he had taken the book, the four living creatures and the four and twenty elders fell down before the Lamb, having each one a harp, and golden bowls full of incense, which are the prayers of the saints. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rev.5.9" data-parsed="Rev_5_9_0_0" data-passage="Rev 5.9" id="Rev.5.9"/><sup>9</sup>And they sing a new song, saying,</p>
<p id="Rev.5-p2">
Worthy art thou to take the book, and to open the seals thereof: for thou was slain, and didst purchase unto God with thy blood <i>men</i> of every tribe,
and tongue, and people, and nation, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rev.5.10" data-parsed="Rev_5_10_0_0" data-passage="Rev 5.10" id="Rev.5.10"/><sup>10</sup>and madest them <i>to be</i> unto our God a kingdom and priests; and they reign upon earth.</p>
<p id="Rev.5-p3">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rev.5.11" data-parsed="Rev_5_11_0_0" data-passage="Rev 5.11" id="Rev.5.11"/><sup>11</sup>And I saw, and I heard a voice of many angels round about the throne and the living creatures and the elders; and the number of them was ten thousand times ten thousand, and thousands of thousands; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rev.5.12" data-parsed="Rev_5_12_0_0" data-passage="Rev 5.12" id="Rev.5.12"/><sup>12</sup>saying with a great voice,</p>
<p id="Rev.5-p4">
Worthy is the Lamb that hath been slain to receive the power, and riches, and wisdom, and might and honor, and glory, and blessing.</p>
<p id="Rev.5-p5">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rev.5.13" data-parsed="Rev_5_13_0_0" data-passage="Rev 5.13" id="Rev.5.13"/><sup>13</sup>And every created thing which is in the heaven, and on the earth, and under the earth, and on the sea, and all things are in them, heard I saying,</p>
<p id="Rev.5-p6">
Unto him that sitteth on the throne, and unto the Lamb, <i>be</i> the blessing, and the honor, and the glory, and the dominion, for ever and ever.</p>
<p id="Rev.5-p7">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rev.5.14" data-parsed="Rev_5_14_0_0" data-passage="Rev 5.14" id="Rev.5.14"/><sup>14</sup>And the four living creatures said, Amen. And the elders fell down and worshipped.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>