<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Revelation 8</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Revelation 8</span></div><div data-next="Rev.9" data-prev="Rev.7" data-progress="98.98%" data-shorttitle="" id="Rev.8" title="Revelation 8">
<h2 id="Rev.8-p0.1">8</h2>
<p id="Rev.8-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rev.8.1" data-parsed="Rev_8_1_0_0" data-passage="Rev 8.1" id="Rev.8.1"/><sup>1</sup>And when he opened the seventh seal, there followed a silence in heaven about the space of half an hour. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rev.8.2" data-parsed="Rev_8_2_0_0" data-passage="Rev 8.2" id="Rev.8.2"/><sup>2</sup>And I saw the seven angels that stand before God; and there were given unto them seven trumpets. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rev.8.3" data-parsed="Rev_8_3_0_0" data-passage="Rev 8.3" id="Rev.8.3"/><sup>3</sup>And another angel came and stood over the altar, having a golden censer; and there was given unto him much incense, that he should add it unto the prayers of all the saints upon the golden altar which was before the throne. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rev.8.4" data-parsed="Rev_8_4_0_0" data-passage="Rev 8.4" id="Rev.8.4"/><sup>4</sup>And the smoke of the incense, with the prayers of the saints, went up before God out of the angel's hand. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rev.8.5" data-parsed="Rev_8_5_0_0" data-passage="Rev 8.5" id="Rev.8.5"/><sup>5</sup>And the angel taketh the censer; and he filled it with the fire of the altar, and cast it upon the earth: and there followed thunders, and voices, and lightnings, and an earthquake. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rev.8.6" data-parsed="Rev_8_6_0_0" data-passage="Rev 8.6" id="Rev.8.6"/><sup>6</sup>And the seven angels that had the seven trumpets prepared themselves to sound. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rev.8.7" data-parsed="Rev_8_7_0_0" data-passage="Rev 8.7" id="Rev.8.7"/><sup>7</sup>And the first sounded, and there followed hail and fire, mingled with blood, and they were cast upon the earth: and the third part of the earth was burnt up, and the third part of the trees was burnt up, and all green grass was burnt up.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Rev.8.8" data-parsed="Rev_8_8_0_0" data-passage="Rev 8.8" id="Rev.8.8"/><sup>8</sup>And the second angel sounded, and as it were a great mountain burning with fire was cast into the sea: and the third part of the sea became blood;

<span data-osisref="Bible:Rev.8.9" data-parsed="Rev_8_9_0_0" data-passage="Rev 8.9" id="Rev.8.9"/><sup>9</sup>and there died the third part of the creatures which were in the sea,
<i>even</i> they that had life; and the third part of the ships was destroyed. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rev.8.10" data-parsed="Rev_8_10_0_0" data-passage="Rev 8.10" id="Rev.8.10"/><sup>10</sup>And the third angel sounded, and there fell from heaven a great star, burning as a torch, and it fell upon the third part of the rivers, and upon the fountains of the waters; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rev.8.11" data-parsed="Rev_8_11_0_0" data-passage="Rev 8.11" id="Rev.8.11"/><sup>11</sup>and the name of the star is called Wormwood: and the third part of the waters became wormwood; and many men died of the waters, because they were made bitter. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rev.8.12" data-parsed="Rev_8_12_0_0" data-passage="Rev 8.12" id="Rev.8.12"/><sup>12</sup>And the fourth angel sounded, and the third part of the sun was smitten, and the third part of the moon, and the third part of the stars; that the third part of them should be darkened, and the day should not shine for the third part of it, and the night in like manner. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rev.8.13" data-parsed="Rev_8_13_0_0" data-passage="Rev 8.13" id="Rev.8.13"/><sup>13</sup>And I saw, and I heard an eagle,
flying in mid heaven, saying with a great voice, Woe, woe, woe, for them that dwell on the earth, by reason of the other voices of the trumpet of the three angels, who are yet to sound.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>