<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Revelation 9</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Revelation 9</span></div><div data-next="Rev.10" data-prev="Rev.8" data-progress="99.03%" data-shorttitle="" id="Rev.9" title="Revelation 9">
<h2 id="Rev.9-p0.1">9</h2>
<p id="Rev.9-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rev.9.1" data-parsed="Rev_9_1_0_0" data-passage="Rev 9.1" id="Rev.9.1"/><sup>1</sup>And the fifth angel sounded, and I saw a star from heaven fallen unto the earth: and there was given to him the key of the pit of the abyss.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Rev.9.2" data-parsed="Rev_9_2_0_0" data-passage="Rev 9.2" id="Rev.9.2"/><sup>2</sup>And he opened the pit of the abyss; and there went up a smoke out of the pit, as the smoke of a great furnace; and the sun and the air were darkened by reason of the smoke of the pit. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rev.9.3" data-parsed="Rev_9_3_0_0" data-passage="Rev 9.3" id="Rev.9.3"/><sup>3</sup>And out of the smoke came forth locusts upon the earth; and power was given them, as the scorpions of the earth have power. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rev.9.4" data-parsed="Rev_9_4_0_0" data-passage="Rev 9.4" id="Rev.9.4"/><sup>4</sup>And it was said unto them that they should not hurt the grass of the earth, neither any green thing, neither any tree, but only such men as have not the seal of God on their foreheads. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rev.9.5" data-parsed="Rev_9_5_0_0" data-passage="Rev 9.5" id="Rev.9.5"/><sup>5</sup>And it was given them that they should not kill them, but that they should be tormented five months: and their torment was as the torment of a scorpion, when it striketh a man. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rev.9.6" data-parsed="Rev_9_6_0_0" data-passage="Rev 9.6" id="Rev.9.6"/><sup>6</sup>And in those days men shall seek death, and shall in no wise find it; and they shall desire to die, and death fleeth from them.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Rev.9.7" data-parsed="Rev_9_7_0_0" data-passage="Rev 9.7" id="Rev.9.7"/><sup>7</sup>And the shapes of the locusts were like unto horses prepared for war;
and upon their heads as it were crowns like unto gold, and their faces were as men's faces. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rev.9.8" data-parsed="Rev_9_8_0_0" data-passage="Rev 9.8" id="Rev.9.8"/><sup>8</sup>And they had hair as the hair of women, and their teeth were as <i>teeth</i> of lions. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rev.9.9" data-parsed="Rev_9_9_0_0" data-passage="Rev 9.9" id="Rev.9.9"/><sup>9</sup>And they had breastplates, as it were breastplates of iron; and the sound of their wings was as the sound of chariots, of many horses rushing to war. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rev.9.10" data-parsed="Rev_9_10_0_0" data-passage="Rev 9.10" id="Rev.9.10"/><sup>10</sup>And they have tails like unto scorpions, and stings; and in their tails is their power to hurt men five months. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rev.9.11" data-parsed="Rev_9_11_0_0" data-passage="Rev 9.11" id="Rev.9.11"/><sup>11</sup>They have over them as king the angel of the abyss: his name in Hebrew is Abaddon, and in the Greek <i>tongue</i> he hath the name Apollyon.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Rev.9.12" data-parsed="Rev_9_12_0_0" data-passage="Rev 9.12" id="Rev.9.12"/><sup>12</sup>The first Woe is past: behold, there come yet two Woes hereafter.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Rev.9.13" data-parsed="Rev_9_13_0_0" data-passage="Rev 9.13" id="Rev.9.13"/><sup>13</sup>And the sixth angel sounded, and I heard a voice from the horns of the golden altar which is before God, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rev.9.14" data-parsed="Rev_9_14_0_0" data-passage="Rev 9.14" id="Rev.9.14"/><sup>14</sup>one saying to the sixth angel that had one trumpet, Loose the four angels that are bound at the great river Euphrates. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rev.9.15" data-parsed="Rev_9_15_0_0" data-passage="Rev 9.15" id="Rev.9.15"/><sup>15</sup>And the four angels were loosed, that had been prepared for the hour and day and month and year, that they should kill the third part of men. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rev.9.16" data-parsed="Rev_9_16_0_0" data-passage="Rev 9.16" id="Rev.9.16"/><sup>16</sup>And the number of the armies of the horsemen was twice ten thousand times ten thousand: I heard the number of them. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rev.9.17" data-parsed="Rev_9_17_0_0" data-passage="Rev 9.17" id="Rev.9.17"/><sup>17</sup>And thus I saw the horses in the vision, and them that sat on them, having breastplates <i>as</i> of fire and of hyacinth and of brimstone: and the heads of lions;
and out of their mouths proceedeth fire and smoke and brimstone. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rev.9.18" data-parsed="Rev_9_18_0_0" data-passage="Rev 9.18" id="Rev.9.18"/><sup>18</sup>By these three plagues was the third part of men killed, by the fire and the smoke and the brimstone, which proceeded out of their mouths. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rev.9.19" data-parsed="Rev_9_19_0_0" data-passage="Rev 9.19" id="Rev.9.19"/><sup>19</sup>For the power of the horses is in their mouth, and in their tails: for their tails are like unto serpents, and have heads; and with them they hurt. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rev.9.20" data-parsed="Rev_9_20_0_0" data-passage="Rev 9.20" id="Rev.9.20"/><sup>20</sup>And the rest of mankind, who were not killed with these plagues, repented not of the works of their hands, that they should not worship demons, and the idols of gold, and of silver, and of brass, and of stone, and of wood; which can neither see, nor hear, nor walk: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rev.9.21" data-parsed="Rev_9_21_0_0" data-passage="Rev 9.21" id="Rev.9.21"/><sup>21</sup>and they repented not of their murders, nor of their sorceries, nor of their fornication, nor of their thefts.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>