<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Romans 14</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Romans 14</span></div><div data-next="Rom.15" data-prev="Rom.13" data-progress="91.76%" data-shorttitle="" id="Rom.14" title="Romans 14">
<h2 id="Rom.14-p0.1">14</h2>
<p id="Rom.14-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.14.1" data-parsed="Rom_14_1_0_0" data-passage="Rom 14.1" id="Rom.14.1"/><sup>1</sup>But him that is weak in faith receive ye, <i>yet</i> not for decision of scruples. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.14.2" data-parsed="Rom_14_2_0_0" data-passage="Rom 14.2" id="Rom.14.2"/><sup>2</sup>One man hath faith to eat all things: but he that is weak eateth herbs. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.14.3" data-parsed="Rom_14_3_0_0" data-passage="Rom 14.3" id="Rom.14.3"/><sup>3</sup>Let not him that eateth set at nought him that eateth not; and let not him that eateth not judge him that eateth: for God hath received him. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.14.4" data-parsed="Rom_14_4_0_0" data-passage="Rom 14.4" id="Rom.14.4"/><sup>4</sup>Who art thou that judgest the servant of another? to his own lord he standeth or falleth. Yea, he shall be made to stand; for the Lord hath power to make him stand. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.14.5" data-parsed="Rom_14_5_0_0" data-passage="Rom 14.5" id="Rom.14.5"/><sup>5</sup>One man esteemeth one day above another: another esteemeth every day <i>alike</i>. Let each man be fully assured in his own mind. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.14.6" data-parsed="Rom_14_6_0_0" data-passage="Rom 14.6" id="Rom.14.6"/><sup>6</sup>He that regardeth the day, regardeth it unto the Lord: and he that eateth, eateth unto the Lord, for he giveth God thanks;
and he that eateth not, unto the Lord he eateth not, and giveth God thanks.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.14.7" data-parsed="Rom_14_7_0_0" data-passage="Rom 14.7" id="Rom.14.7"/><sup>7</sup>For none of us liveth to himself, and none dieth to himself. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.14.8" data-parsed="Rom_14_8_0_0" data-passage="Rom 14.8" id="Rom.14.8"/><sup>8</sup>For whether we live, we live unto the Lord; or whether we die, we die unto the Lord: whether we live therefore, or die, we are the Lord's. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.14.9" data-parsed="Rom_14_9_0_0" data-passage="Rom 14.9" id="Rom.14.9"/><sup>9</sup>For to this end Christ died and lived <i>again</i>, that he might be Lord of both the dead and the living. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.14.10" data-parsed="Rom_14_10_0_0" data-passage="Rom 14.10" id="Rom.14.10"/><sup>10</sup>But thou, why dost thou judge thy brother? or thou again, why dost thou set at nought thy brother? for we shall all stand before the judgment-seat of God. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.14.11" data-parsed="Rom_14_11_0_0" data-passage="Rom 14.11" id="Rom.14.11"/><sup>11</sup>For it is written,</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Rom.14-p2">
As I live, saith the Lord, to me every knee shall bow,</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Rom.14-p3">
And every tongue shall confess to God.</p>
<p id="Rom.14-p4">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.14.12" data-parsed="Rom_14_12_0_0" data-passage="Rom 14.12" id="Rom.14.12"/><sup>12</sup>So then each one of us shall give account of himself to God. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.14.13" data-parsed="Rom_14_13_0_0" data-passage="Rom 14.13" id="Rom.14.13"/><sup>13</sup>Let us not therefore judge one another any more: but judge ye this rather, that no man put a stumblingblock in his brother's way, or an occasion of falling.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.14.14" data-parsed="Rom_14_14_0_0" data-passage="Rom 14.14" id="Rom.14.14"/><sup>14</sup>I know, and am persuaded in the Lord Jesus, that nothing is unclean of itself: save that to him who accounteth anything to be unclean, to him it is unclean. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.14.15" data-parsed="Rom_14_15_0_0" data-passage="Rom 14.15" id="Rom.14.15"/><sup>15</sup>For if because of meat thy brother is grieved, thou walkest no longer in love. Destroy not with thy meat him for whom Christ died. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.14.16" data-parsed="Rom_14_16_0_0" data-passage="Rom 14.16" id="Rom.14.16"/><sup>16</sup>Let not then your good be evil spoken of: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.14.17" data-parsed="Rom_14_17_0_0" data-passage="Rom 14.17" id="Rom.14.17"/><sup>17</sup>for the kingdom of God is not eating and drinking, but righteousness and peace and joy in the Holy Spirit.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.14.18" data-parsed="Rom_14_18_0_0" data-passage="Rom 14.18" id="Rom.14.18"/><sup>18</sup>For he that herein serveth Christ is well-pleasing to God, and approved of men. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.14.19" data-parsed="Rom_14_19_0_0" data-passage="Rom 14.19" id="Rom.14.19"/><sup>19</sup>So then let us follow after things which make for peace, and things whereby we may edify one another. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.14.20" data-parsed="Rom_14_20_0_0" data-passage="Rom 14.20" id="Rom.14.20"/><sup>20</sup>Overthrow not for meat's sake the work of God. All things indeed are clean; howbeit it is evil for that man who eateth with offence. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.14.21" data-parsed="Rom_14_21_0_0" data-passage="Rom 14.21" id="Rom.14.21"/><sup>21</sup>It is good not to eat flesh, nor to drink wine, nor <i>to do anything</i> whereby thy brother stumbleth. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.14.22" data-parsed="Rom_14_22_0_0" data-passage="Rom 14.22" id="Rom.14.22"/><sup>22</sup>The faith which thou hast, have thou to thyself before God. Happy is he that judgeth not himself in that which he approveth. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.14.23" data-parsed="Rom_14_23_0_0" data-passage="Rom 14.23" id="Rom.14.23"/><sup>23</sup>But he that doubteth is condemned if he eat, because <i>he eateth</i> not of faith; and whatsoever is not of faith is sin.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>