<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Romans 10</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Romans 10</span></div><div data-next="Rom.11" data-prev="Rom.9" data-progress="91.50%" data-shorttitle="" id="Rom.10" title="Romans 10">
<h2 id="Rom.10-p0.1">10</h2>
<p id="Rom.10-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.10.1" data-parsed="Rom_10_1_0_0" data-passage="Rom 10.1" id="Rom.10.1"/><sup>1</sup>Brethren, my heart's desire and my supplication to God is for them, that they may be saved. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.10.2" data-parsed="Rom_10_2_0_0" data-passage="Rom 10.2" id="Rom.10.2"/><sup>2</sup>For I bear them witness that they have a zeal for God, but not according to knowledge. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.10.3" data-parsed="Rom_10_3_0_0" data-passage="Rom 10.3" id="Rom.10.3"/><sup>3</sup>For being ignorant of God's righteousness, and seeking to establish their own, they did not subject themselves to the righteousness of God. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.10.4" data-parsed="Rom_10_4_0_0" data-passage="Rom 10.4" id="Rom.10.4"/><sup>4</sup>For Christ is the end of the law unto righteousness to every one that believeth. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.10.5" data-parsed="Rom_10_5_0_0" data-passage="Rom 10.5" id="Rom.10.5"/><sup>5</sup>For Moses writeth that the man that doeth the righteousness which is of the law shall live thereby.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.10.6" data-parsed="Rom_10_6_0_0" data-passage="Rom 10.6" id="Rom.10.6"/><sup>6</sup>But the righteousness which is of faith saith thus, Say not in thy heart, Who shall ascend into heaven? (that is, to bring Christ down:)

<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.10.7" data-parsed="Rom_10_7_0_0" data-passage="Rom 10.7" id="Rom.10.7"/><sup>7</sup>or, Who shall descend into the abyss? (That is, to bring Christ up from the dead.) 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.10.8" data-parsed="Rom_10_8_0_0" data-passage="Rom 10.8" id="Rom.10.8"/><sup>8</sup>But what saith it? The word is nigh thee, in thy mouth, and in thy heart: that is, the word of faith, which we preach: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.10.9" data-parsed="Rom_10_9_0_0" data-passage="Rom 10.9" id="Rom.10.9"/><sup>9</sup>because if thou shalt confess with thy mouth Jesus <i>as</i> Lord, and shalt believe in thy heart that God raised him from the dead, thou shalt be saved: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.10.10" data-parsed="Rom_10_10_0_0" data-passage="Rom 10.10" id="Rom.10.10"/><sup>10</sup>for with the heart man believeth unto righteousness; and with the mouth confession is made unto salvation. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.10.11" data-parsed="Rom_10_11_0_0" data-passage="Rom 10.11" id="Rom.10.11"/><sup>11</sup>For the span saith, Whosoever believeth on him shall not be put to shame. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.10.12" data-parsed="Rom_10_12_0_0" data-passage="Rom 10.12" id="Rom.10.12"/><sup>12</sup>For there is no distinction between Jew and Greek: for the same <i>Lord</i> is Lord of all, and is rich unto all that call upon him: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.10.13" data-parsed="Rom_10_13_0_0" data-passage="Rom 10.13" id="Rom.10.13"/><sup>13</sup>for, Whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.10.14" data-parsed="Rom_10_14_0_0" data-passage="Rom 10.14" id="Rom.10.14"/><sup>14</sup>How then shall they call on him in whom they have not believed? and how shall they believe in him whom they have not heard? and how shall they hear without a preacher? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.10.15" data-parsed="Rom_10_15_0_0" data-passage="Rom 10.15" id="Rom.10.15"/><sup>15</sup>and how shall they preach, except they be sent? even as it is written, How beautiful are the feet of them that bring glad tidings of good things! 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.10.16" data-parsed="Rom_10_16_0_0" data-passage="Rom 10.16" id="Rom.10.16"/><sup>16</sup>But they did not all hearken to the glad tidings. For Isaiah saith, Lord, who hath believed our report? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.10.17" data-parsed="Rom_10_17_0_0" data-passage="Rom 10.17" id="Rom.10.17"/><sup>17</sup>So belief <i>cometh</i> of hearing, and hearing by the word of Christ. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.10.18" data-parsed="Rom_10_18_0_0" data-passage="Rom 10.18" id="Rom.10.18"/><sup>18</sup>But I say, Did they not hear? Yea, verily,</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Rom.10-p2">
Their sound went out into all the earth,</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Rom.10-p3">
And their words unto the ends of the world.</p>
<p id="Rom.10-p4">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.10.19" data-parsed="Rom_10_19_0_0" data-passage="Rom 10.19" id="Rom.10.19"/><sup>19</sup>But I say, Did Israel not know? First Moses saith,</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Rom.10-p5">
I will provoke you to jealousy with that which is no nation,</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Rom.10-p6">
With a nation void of understanding will I anger you.</p>
<p id="Rom.10-p7">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.10.20" data-parsed="Rom_10_20_0_0" data-passage="Rom 10.20" id="Rom.10.20"/><sup>20</sup>And Isaiah is very bold, and saith,</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Rom.10-p8">
I was found of them that sought me not;</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Rom.10-p9">
I became manifest unto them that asked not of me.</p>
<p id="Rom.10-p10">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.10.21" data-parsed="Rom_10_21_0_0" data-passage="Rom 10.21" id="Rom.10.21"/><sup>21</sup>But as to Israel he saith, All the day long did I spread out my hands unto a disobedient and gainsaying people.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>