<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Romans 15</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Romans 15</span></div><div data-next="Rom.16" data-prev="Rom.14" data-progress="91.82%" data-shorttitle="" id="Rom.15" title="Romans 15">
<h2 id="Rom.15-p0.1">15</h2>
<p id="Rom.15-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.15.1" data-parsed="Rom_15_1_0_0" data-passage="Rom 15.1" id="Rom.15.1"/><sup>1</sup>Now we that are strong ought to bear the infirmities of the weak,
and not to please ourselves. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.15.2" data-parsed="Rom_15_2_0_0" data-passage="Rom 15.2" id="Rom.15.2"/><sup>2</sup>Let each one of us please his neighbor for that which is good, unto edifying. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.15.3" data-parsed="Rom_15_3_0_0" data-passage="Rom 15.3" id="Rom.15.3"/><sup>3</sup>For Christ also pleased not himself;
but, as it is written, The reproaches of them that reproached thee fell upon me. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.15.4" data-parsed="Rom_15_4_0_0" data-passage="Rom 15.4" id="Rom.15.4"/><sup>4</sup>For whatsoever things were written aforetime were written for our learning, that through patience and through comfort of the spans we might have hope. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.15.5" data-parsed="Rom_15_5_0_0" data-passage="Rom 15.5" id="Rom.15.5"/><sup>5</sup>Now the God of patience and of comfort grant you to be of the same mind one with another according to Christ Jesus: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.15.6" data-parsed="Rom_15_6_0_0" data-passage="Rom 15.6" id="Rom.15.6"/><sup>6</sup>that with one accord ye may with one mouth glorify the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.15.7" data-parsed="Rom_15_7_0_0" data-passage="Rom 15.7" id="Rom.15.7"/><sup>7</sup>Wherefore receive ye one another, even as Christ also received you, to the glory of God. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.15.8" data-parsed="Rom_15_8_0_0" data-passage="Rom 15.8" id="Rom.15.8"/><sup>8</sup>For I say that Christ hath been made a minister of the circumcision for the truth of God, that he might confirm the promises <i>given</i> unto the fathers, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.15.9" data-parsed="Rom_15_9_0_0" data-passage="Rom 15.9" id="Rom.15.9"/><sup>9</sup>and that the Gentiles might glorify God for his mercy; as it is written,</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Rom.15-p2">
Therefore will I give praise unto thee among the Gentiles,</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Rom.15-p3">
And sing unto thy name.</p>
<p id="Rom.15-p4">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.15.10" data-parsed="Rom_15_10_0_0" data-passage="Rom 15.10" id="Rom.15.10"/><sup>10</sup>And again he saith,</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Rom.15-p5">
Rejoice, ye Gentiles, with his people.</p>
<p id="Rom.15-p6">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.15.11" data-parsed="Rom_15_11_0_0" data-passage="Rom 15.11" id="Rom.15.11"/><sup>11</sup>And again,</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Rom.15-p7">
Praise the Lord, all ye Gentiles;</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Rom.15-p8">
And let all the peoples praise him.</p>
<p id="Rom.15-p9">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.15.12" data-parsed="Rom_15_12_0_0" data-passage="Rom 15.12" id="Rom.15.12"/><sup>12</sup>And again, Isaiah saith,</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Rom.15-p10">
There shall be the root of Jesse,</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Rom.15-p11">
And he that ariseth to rule over the Gentiles;</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Rom.15-p12">
On him shall the Gentiles hope.</p>
<p id="Rom.15-p13">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.15.13" data-parsed="Rom_15_13_0_0" data-passage="Rom 15.13" id="Rom.15.13"/><sup>13</sup>Now the God of hope fill you with all joy and peace in believing, that ye may abound in hope, in the power of the Holy Spirit. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.15.14" data-parsed="Rom_15_14_0_0" data-passage="Rom 15.14" id="Rom.15.14"/><sup>14</sup>And I myself also am persuaded of you, my brethren, that ye yourselves are full of goodness, filled with all knowledge, able also to admonish one another.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.15.15" data-parsed="Rom_15_15_0_0" data-passage="Rom 15.15" id="Rom.15.15"/><sup>15</sup>But I write the more boldly unto you in some measure, as putting you again in remembrance, because of the grace that was given me of God,

<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.15.16" data-parsed="Rom_15_16_0_0" data-passage="Rom 15.16" id="Rom.15.16"/><sup>16</sup>that I should be a minister of Christ Jesus unto the Gentiles,
ministering the gospel of God, that the offering up of the Gentiles might be made acceptable, being sanctified by the Holy Spirit. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.15.17" data-parsed="Rom_15_17_0_0" data-passage="Rom 15.17" id="Rom.15.17"/><sup>17</sup>I have therefore my glorifying in Christ Jesus in things pertaining to God. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.15.18" data-parsed="Rom_15_18_0_0" data-passage="Rom 15.18" id="Rom.15.18"/><sup>18</sup>For I will not dare to speak of any things save those which Christ wrought through me,
for the obedience of the Gentiles, by word and deed, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.15.19" data-parsed="Rom_15_19_0_0" data-passage="Rom 15.19" id="Rom.15.19"/><sup>19</sup>in the power of signs and wonders, in the power of the Holy Spirit; so that from Jerusalem,
and round about even unto Illyricum, I have fully preached the gospel of Christ; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.15.20" data-parsed="Rom_15_20_0_0" data-passage="Rom 15.20" id="Rom.15.20"/><sup>20</sup>yea, making it my aim so to preach the gospel, not where Christ was <i>already</i> named, that I might not build upon another man's foundation; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.15.21" data-parsed="Rom_15_21_0_0" data-passage="Rom 15.21" id="Rom.15.21"/><sup>21</sup>but, as it is written,</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Rom.15-p14">
They shall see, to whom no tidings of him came,</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Rom.15-p15">
And they who have not heard shall understand.</p>
<p id="Rom.15-p16">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.15.22" data-parsed="Rom_15_22_0_0" data-passage="Rom 15.22" id="Rom.15.22"/><sup>22</sup>Wherefore also I was hindered these many times from coming to you:

<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.15.23" data-parsed="Rom_15_23_0_0" data-passage="Rom 15.23" id="Rom.15.23"/><sup>23</sup>but now, having no more any place in these regions, and having these many years a longing to come unto you, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.15.24" data-parsed="Rom_15_24_0_0" data-passage="Rom 15.24" id="Rom.15.24"/><sup>24</sup>whensoever I go unto Spain (for I hope to see you in my journey, and to be brought on my way thitherward by you, if first in some measure I shall have been satisfied with your company)-- 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.15.25" data-parsed="Rom_15_25_0_0" data-passage="Rom 15.25" id="Rom.15.25"/><sup>25</sup>but now, I <i>say</i>, I go unto Jerusalem, ministering unto the saints. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.15.26" data-parsed="Rom_15_26_0_0" data-passage="Rom 15.26" id="Rom.15.26"/><sup>26</sup>For it hath been the good pleasure of Macedonia and Achaia to make a certain contribution for the poor among the saints that are at Jerusalem. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.15.27" data-parsed="Rom_15_27_0_0" data-passage="Rom 15.27" id="Rom.15.27"/><sup>27</sup>Yea, it hath been their good pleasure; and their debtors they are. For if the Gentiles have been made partakers of their spiritual things, they owe it <i>to them</i> also to minister unto them in carnal things. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.15.28" data-parsed="Rom_15_28_0_0" data-passage="Rom 15.28" id="Rom.15.28"/><sup>28</sup>When therefore I have accomplished this, and have sealed to them this fruit, I will go on by you unto Spain. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.15.29" data-parsed="Rom_15_29_0_0" data-passage="Rom 15.29" id="Rom.15.29"/><sup>29</sup>And I know that, when I come unto you, I shall come in the fulness of the blessing of Christ.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.15.30" data-parsed="Rom_15_30_0_0" data-passage="Rom 15.30" id="Rom.15.30"/><sup>30</sup>Now I beseech you, brethren, by our Lord Jesus Christ, and by the love of the Spirit, that ye strive together with me in your prayers to God for me;

<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.15.31" data-parsed="Rom_15_31_0_0" data-passage="Rom 15.31" id="Rom.15.31"/><sup>31</sup>that I may be delivered from them that are disobedient in Judaea, and <i>that</i> my ministration which <i>I have</i> for Jerusalem may be acceptable to the saints; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.15.32" data-parsed="Rom_15_32_0_0" data-passage="Rom 15.32" id="Rom.15.32"/><sup>32</sup>that I may come unto you in joy through the will of God, and together with you find rest. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.15.33" data-parsed="Rom_15_33_0_0" data-passage="Rom 15.33" id="Rom.15.33"/><sup>33</sup>Now the God of peace be with you all. Amen.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>