<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Romans 12</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Romans 12</span></div><div data-next="Rom.13" data-prev="Rom.11" data-progress="91.66%" data-shorttitle="" id="Rom.12" title="Romans 12">
<h2 id="Rom.12-p0.1">12</h2>
<p id="Rom.12-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.12.1" data-parsed="Rom_12_1_0_0" data-passage="Rom 12.1" id="Rom.12.1"/><sup>1</sup>I beseech you therefore, brethren, by the mercies of God, to present your bodies a living sacrifice, holy, acceptable to God, <i>which is</i> your spiritual service. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.12.2" data-parsed="Rom_12_2_0_0" data-passage="Rom 12.2" id="Rom.12.2"/><sup>2</sup>And be not fashioned according to this world: but be ye transformed by the renewing of your mind, and ye may prove what is the good and acceptable and perfect will of God. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.12.3" data-parsed="Rom_12_3_0_0" data-passage="Rom 12.3" id="Rom.12.3"/><sup>3</sup>For I say,
through the grace that was given me, to every man that is among you, not to think of himself more highly than he ought to think; but to think as to think soberly, according as God hath dealt to each man a measure of faith. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.12.4" data-parsed="Rom_12_4_0_0" data-passage="Rom 12.4" id="Rom.12.4"/><sup>4</sup>For even as we have many members in one body, and all the members have not the same office: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.12.5" data-parsed="Rom_12_5_0_0" data-passage="Rom 12.5" id="Rom.12.5"/><sup>5</sup>so we, who are many, are one body in Christ, and severally members one of another. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.12.6" data-parsed="Rom_12_6_0_0" data-passage="Rom 12.6" id="Rom.12.6"/><sup>6</sup>And having gifts differing according to the grace that was given to us, whether prophecy, <i>let us prophesy</i>
according to the proportion of our faith; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.12.7" data-parsed="Rom_12_7_0_0" data-passage="Rom 12.7" id="Rom.12.7"/><sup>7</sup>or ministry, <i>let us give ourselves</i> to our ministry; or he that teacheth, to his teaching; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.12.8" data-parsed="Rom_12_8_0_0" data-passage="Rom 12.8" id="Rom.12.8"/><sup>8</sup>or he that exhorteth, to his exhorting: he that giveth, <i>let him do it</i>
with liberality; he that ruleth, with diligence; he that showeth mercy, with cheerfulness. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.12.9" data-parsed="Rom_12_9_0_0" data-passage="Rom 12.9" id="Rom.12.9"/><sup>9</sup>Let love be without hypocrisy. Abhor that which is evil;
cleave to that which is good. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.12.10" data-parsed="Rom_12_10_0_0" data-passage="Rom 12.10" id="Rom.12.10"/><sup>10</sup>In love of the brethren be tenderly affectioned one to another; in honor preferring one another; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.12.11" data-parsed="Rom_12_11_0_0" data-passage="Rom 12.11" id="Rom.12.11"/><sup>11</sup>in diligence not slothful; fervent in spirit; serving the Lord; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.12.12" data-parsed="Rom_12_12_0_0" data-passage="Rom 12.12" id="Rom.12.12"/><sup>12</sup>rejoicing in hope; patient in tribulation; continuing stedfastly in prayer;

<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.12.13" data-parsed="Rom_12_13_0_0" data-passage="Rom 12.13" id="Rom.12.13"/><sup>13</sup>communicating to the necessities of the saints; given to hospitality.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.12.14" data-parsed="Rom_12_14_0_0" data-passage="Rom 12.14" id="Rom.12.14"/><sup>14</sup>Bless them that persecute you; bless, and curse not. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.12.15" data-parsed="Rom_12_15_0_0" data-passage="Rom 12.15" id="Rom.12.15"/><sup>15</sup>Rejoice with them that rejoice; weep with them that weep. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.12.16" data-parsed="Rom_12_16_0_0" data-passage="Rom 12.16" id="Rom.12.16"/><sup>16</sup>Be of the same mind one toward another. Set not your mind on high things, but condescend to things that are lowly. Be not wise in your own conceits. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.12.17" data-parsed="Rom_12_17_0_0" data-passage="Rom 12.17" id="Rom.12.17"/><sup>17</sup>Render to no man evil for evil. Take thought for things honorable in the sight of all men. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.12.18" data-parsed="Rom_12_18_0_0" data-passage="Rom 12.18" id="Rom.12.18"/><sup>18</sup>If it be possible, as much as in you lieth, be at peace with all men.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.12.19" data-parsed="Rom_12_19_0_0" data-passage="Rom 12.19" id="Rom.12.19"/><sup>19</sup>Avenge not yourselves, beloved, but give place unto the wrath <i>of God</i>: for it is written, Vengeance belongeth unto me; I will recompense,
saith the Lord. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.12.20" data-parsed="Rom_12_20_0_0" data-passage="Rom 12.20" id="Rom.12.20"/><sup>20</sup>But if thine enemy hunger, feed him; if he thirst, give him to drink: for in so doing thou shalt heap coals of fire upon his head.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.12.21" data-parsed="Rom_12_21_0_0" data-passage="Rom 12.21" id="Rom.12.21"/><sup>21</sup>Be not overcome of evil, but overcome evil with good.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>