<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Romans 11</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Romans 11</span></div><div data-next="Rom.12" data-prev="Rom.10" data-progress="91.56%" data-shorttitle="" id="Rom.11" title="Romans 11">
<h2 id="Rom.11-p0.1">11</h2>
<p id="Rom.11-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.11.1" data-parsed="Rom_11_1_0_0" data-passage="Rom 11.1" id="Rom.11.1"/><sup>1</sup>I say then, Did God cast off his people? God forbid. For I also am an Israelite, of the seed of Abraham, of the tribe of Benjamin. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.11.2" data-parsed="Rom_11_2_0_0" data-passage="Rom 11.2" id="Rom.11.2"/><sup>2</sup>God did not cast off his people which he foreknew. Or know ye not what the span saith of Elijah? how he pleadeth with God against Israel: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.11.3" data-parsed="Rom_11_3_0_0" data-passage="Rom 11.3" id="Rom.11.3"/><sup>3</sup>Lord, they have killed thy prophets, they have digged down thine altars; and I am left alone, and they seek my life. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.11.4" data-parsed="Rom_11_4_0_0" data-passage="Rom 11.4" id="Rom.11.4"/><sup>4</sup>But what saith the answer of God unto him?
I have left for myself seven thousand men, who have not bowed the knee to Baal. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.11.5" data-parsed="Rom_11_5_0_0" data-passage="Rom 11.5" id="Rom.11.5"/><sup>5</sup>Even so then at this present time also there is a remnant according to the election of grace. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.11.6" data-parsed="Rom_11_6_0_0" data-passage="Rom 11.6" id="Rom.11.6"/><sup>6</sup>But if it is by grace, it is no more of works: otherwise grace is no more grace. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.11.7" data-parsed="Rom_11_7_0_0" data-passage="Rom 11.7" id="Rom.11.7"/><sup>7</sup>What then? that which Israel seeketh for, that he obtained not; but the election obtained it, and the rest were hardened: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.11.8" data-parsed="Rom_11_8_0_0" data-passage="Rom 11.8" id="Rom.11.8"/><sup>8</sup>according as it is written, God gave them a spirit of stupor, eyes that they should not see, and ears that they should not hear,
unto this very day. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.11.9" data-parsed="Rom_11_9_0_0" data-passage="Rom 11.9" id="Rom.11.9"/><sup>9</sup>And David saith,</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Rom.11-p2">
Let their table be made a snare, and a trap,</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Rom.11-p3">
And a stumblingblock, and a recompense unto them:</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Rom.11-p4">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.11.10" data-parsed="Rom_11_10_0_0" data-passage="Rom 11.10" id="Rom.11.10"/><sup>10</sup>Let their eyes be darkened, that they may not see,</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Rom.11-p5">
And bow thou down their back always.</p>
<p id="Rom.11-p6">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.11.11" data-parsed="Rom_11_11_0_0" data-passage="Rom 11.11" id="Rom.11.11"/><sup>11</sup>I say then, Did they stumble that they might fall? God forbid: but by their fall salvation <i>is come</i> unto the Gentiles, to provoke them to jealousy. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.11.12" data-parsed="Rom_11_12_0_0" data-passage="Rom 11.12" id="Rom.11.12"/><sup>12</sup>Now if their fall, is the riches of the world, and their loss the riches of the Gentiles; how much more their fulness? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.11.13" data-parsed="Rom_11_13_0_0" data-passage="Rom 11.13" id="Rom.11.13"/><sup>13</sup>But I speak to you that are Gentiles. Inasmuch then as I am an apostle of Gentiles, I glorify my ministry; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.11.14" data-parsed="Rom_11_14_0_0" data-passage="Rom 11.14" id="Rom.11.14"/><sup>14</sup>if by any means I may provoke to jealousy <i>them that are</i> my flesh, and may save some of them. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.11.15" data-parsed="Rom_11_15_0_0" data-passage="Rom 11.15" id="Rom.11.15"/><sup>15</sup>For if the casting away of them <i>is</i> the reconciling of the world, what <i>shall</i> the receiving <i>of them be</i>, but life from the dead? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.11.16" data-parsed="Rom_11_16_0_0" data-passage="Rom 11.16" id="Rom.11.16"/><sup>16</sup>And if the firstfruit is holy, so is the lump: and if the root is holy, so are the branches. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.11.17" data-parsed="Rom_11_17_0_0" data-passage="Rom 11.17" id="Rom.11.17"/><sup>17</sup>But if some of the branches were broken off, and thou, being a wild olive, wast grafted in among them, and didst become partaker with them of the root of the fatness of the olive tree; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.11.18" data-parsed="Rom_11_18_0_0" data-passage="Rom 11.18" id="Rom.11.18"/><sup>18</sup>glory not over the branches: but if thou gloriest, it is not thou that bearest the root, but the root thee. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.11.19" data-parsed="Rom_11_19_0_0" data-passage="Rom 11.19" id="Rom.11.19"/><sup>19</sup>Thou wilt say then, Branches were broken off, that I might be grafted in. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.11.20" data-parsed="Rom_11_20_0_0" data-passage="Rom 11.20" id="Rom.11.20"/><sup>20</sup>Well; by their unbelief they were broken off, and thou standest by thy faith. Be not highminded, but fear: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.11.21" data-parsed="Rom_11_21_0_0" data-passage="Rom 11.21" id="Rom.11.21"/><sup>21</sup>for if God spared not the natural branches, neither will he spare thee. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.11.22" data-parsed="Rom_11_22_0_0" data-passage="Rom 11.22" id="Rom.11.22"/><sup>22</sup>Behold then the goodness and severity of God: toward them that fell, severity; but toward thee, God's goodness, if thou continue in his goodness: otherwise thou also shalt be cut off. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.11.23" data-parsed="Rom_11_23_0_0" data-passage="Rom 11.23" id="Rom.11.23"/><sup>23</sup>And they also, if they continue not in their unbelief, shall be grafted in: for God is able to graft them in again.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.11.24" data-parsed="Rom_11_24_0_0" data-passage="Rom 11.24" id="Rom.11.24"/><sup>24</sup>For if thou wast cut out of that which is by nature a wild olive tree,
and wast grafted contrary to nature into a good olive tree; how much more shall these, which are the natural <i>branches</i>, be grafted into their own olive tree? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.11.25" data-parsed="Rom_11_25_0_0" data-passage="Rom 11.25" id="Rom.11.25"/><sup>25</sup>For I would not, brethren, have you ignorant of this mystery, lest ye be wise in your own conceits, that a hardening in part hath befallen Israel, until the fulness of the Gentiles be come in; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.11.26" data-parsed="Rom_11_26_0_0" data-passage="Rom 11.26" id="Rom.11.26"/><sup>26</sup>and so all Israel shall be saved: even as it is written,</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Rom.11-p7">
There shall come out of Zion the Deliverer;</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Rom.11-p8">
He shall turn away ungodliness from Jacob:</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Rom.11-p9">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.11.27" data-parsed="Rom_11_27_0_0" data-passage="Rom 11.27" id="Rom.11.27"/><sup>27</sup>And this is my covenant unto them,</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Rom.11-p10">
When I shall take away their sins.</p>
<p id="Rom.11-p11">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.11.28" data-parsed="Rom_11_28_0_0" data-passage="Rom 11.28" id="Rom.11.28"/><sup>28</sup>As touching the gospel, they are enemies for your sake: but as touching the election, they are beloved for the fathers' sake. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.11.29" data-parsed="Rom_11_29_0_0" data-passage="Rom 11.29" id="Rom.11.29"/><sup>29</sup>For the gifts and the calling of God are not repented of. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.11.30" data-parsed="Rom_11_30_0_0" data-passage="Rom 11.30" id="Rom.11.30"/><sup>30</sup>For as ye in time past were disobedient to God, but now have obtained mercy by their disobedience,

<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.11.31" data-parsed="Rom_11_31_0_0" data-passage="Rom 11.31" id="Rom.11.31"/><sup>31</sup>even so have these also now been disobedient, that by the mercy shown to you they also may now obtain mercy. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.11.32" data-parsed="Rom_11_32_0_0" data-passage="Rom 11.32" id="Rom.11.32"/><sup>32</sup>For God hath shut up all unto disobedience, that he might have mercy upon all. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.11.33" data-parsed="Rom_11_33_0_0" data-passage="Rom 11.33" id="Rom.11.33"/><sup>33</sup>O the depth of the riches both of the wisdom and the knowledge of God! how unsearchable are his judgments, and his ways past tracing out! 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.11.34" data-parsed="Rom_11_34_0_0" data-passage="Rom 11.34" id="Rom.11.34"/><sup>34</sup>For who hath known the mind of the Lord? or who hath been his counsellor? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.11.35" data-parsed="Rom_11_35_0_0" data-passage="Rom 11.35" id="Rom.11.35"/><sup>35</sup>or who hath first given to him, and it shall be recompensed unto him again? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.11.36" data-parsed="Rom_11_36_0_0" data-passage="Rom 11.36" id="Rom.11.36"/><sup>36</sup>For of him, and through him, and unto him, are all things. To him <i>be</i> the glory for ever. Amen.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>