<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Romans 2</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Romans 2</span></div><div data-next="Rom.3" data-prev="Rom.1" data-progress="90.88%" data-shorttitle="" id="Rom.2" title="Romans 2">
<h2 id="Rom.2-p0.1">2</h2>
<p id="Rom.2-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.2.1" data-parsed="Rom_2_1_0_0" data-passage="Rom 2.1" id="Rom.2.1"/><sup>1</sup>Wherefore thou art without excuse, O man, whosoever thou art that judgest: for wherein thou judges another, thou condemnest thyself; for thou that judgest dost practise the same things. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.2.2" data-parsed="Rom_2_2_0_0" data-passage="Rom 2.2" id="Rom.2.2"/><sup>2</sup>And we know that the judgment of God is according to truth against them that practise such things.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.2.3" data-parsed="Rom_2_3_0_0" data-passage="Rom 2.3" id="Rom.2.3"/><sup>3</sup>And reckonest thou this, O man, who judgest them that practise such things, and doest the same, that thou shalt escape the judgment of God?

<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.2.4" data-parsed="Rom_2_4_0_0" data-passage="Rom 2.4" id="Rom.2.4"/><sup>4</sup>Or despisest thou the riches of his goodness and forbearance and longsuffering, not knowing that the goodness of God leadeth thee to repentance? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.2.5" data-parsed="Rom_2_5_0_0" data-passage="Rom 2.5" id="Rom.2.5"/><sup>5</sup>but after thy hardness and impenitent heart treasurest up for thyself wrath in the day of wrath and revelation of the righteous judgment of God; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.2.6" data-parsed="Rom_2_6_0_0" data-passage="Rom 2.6" id="Rom.2.6"/><sup>6</sup>who will render to every man according to his works:

<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.2.7" data-parsed="Rom_2_7_0_0" data-passage="Rom 2.7" id="Rom.2.7"/><sup>7</sup>to them that by patience in well-doing seek for glory and honor and incorruption, eternal life: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.2.8" data-parsed="Rom_2_8_0_0" data-passage="Rom 2.8" id="Rom.2.8"/><sup>8</sup>but unto them that are factious, and obey not the truth, but obey unrighteousness, <i>shall be</i> wrath and indignation, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.2.9" data-parsed="Rom_2_9_0_0" data-passage="Rom 2.9" id="Rom.2.9"/><sup>9</sup>tribulation and anguish, upon every soul of man that worketh evil, of the Jew first, and also of the Greek; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.2.10" data-parsed="Rom_2_10_0_0" data-passage="Rom 2.10" id="Rom.2.10"/><sup>10</sup>but glory and honor and peace to every man that worketh good, to the Jew first, and also to the Greek: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.2.11" data-parsed="Rom_2_11_0_0" data-passage="Rom 2.11" id="Rom.2.11"/><sup>11</sup>for there is no respect of persons with God. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.2.12" data-parsed="Rom_2_12_0_0" data-passage="Rom 2.12" id="Rom.2.12"/><sup>12</sup>For as many as have sinned without law shall also perish without the law: and as many as have sinned under the law shall be judged by the law; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.2.13" data-parsed="Rom_2_13_0_0" data-passage="Rom 2.13" id="Rom.2.13"/><sup>13</sup>for not the hearers of the law are just before God, but the doers of the law shall be justified: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.2.14" data-parsed="Rom_2_14_0_0" data-passage="Rom 2.14" id="Rom.2.14"/><sup>14</sup>(for when Gentiles that have not the law do by nature the things of the law, these, not having the law, are the law unto themselves;

<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.2.15" data-parsed="Rom_2_15_0_0" data-passage="Rom 2.15" id="Rom.2.15"/><sup>15</sup>in that they show the work of the law written in their hearts, their conscience bearing witness therewith, and their thoughts one with another accusing or else excusing <i>them</i>); 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.2.16" data-parsed="Rom_2_16_0_0" data-passage="Rom 2.16" id="Rom.2.16"/><sup>16</sup>in the day when God shall judge the secrets of men, according to my gospel, by Jesus Christ. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.2.17" data-parsed="Rom_2_17_0_0" data-passage="Rom 2.17" id="Rom.2.17"/><sup>17</sup>But if thou bearest the name of a Jew, and restest upon the law, and gloriest in God, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.2.18" data-parsed="Rom_2_18_0_0" data-passage="Rom 2.18" id="Rom.2.18"/><sup>18</sup>and knowest his will, and approvest the things that are excellent,
being instructed out of the law, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.2.19" data-parsed="Rom_2_19_0_0" data-passage="Rom 2.19" id="Rom.2.19"/><sup>19</sup>and art confident that thou thyself art a guide of the blind, a light of them that are in darkness, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.2.20" data-parsed="Rom_2_20_0_0" data-passage="Rom 2.20" id="Rom.2.20"/><sup>20</sup>a corrector of the foolish, a teacher of babes, having in the law the form of knowledge and of the truth; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.2.21" data-parsed="Rom_2_21_0_0" data-passage="Rom 2.21" id="Rom.2.21"/><sup>21</sup>thou therefore that teachest another,
teachest thou not thyself? thou that preachest a man should not steal, dost thou steal? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.2.22" data-parsed="Rom_2_22_0_0" data-passage="Rom 2.22" id="Rom.2.22"/><sup>22</sup>thou that sayest a man should not commit adultery, dost thou commit adultery? thou that abhorrest idols, dost thou rob temples?

<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.2.23" data-parsed="Rom_2_23_0_0" data-passage="Rom 2.23" id="Rom.2.23"/><sup>23</sup>thou who gloriest in the law, through thy transgression of the law dishonorest thou God? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.2.24" data-parsed="Rom_2_24_0_0" data-passage="Rom 2.24" id="Rom.2.24"/><sup>24</sup>For the name of God is blasphemed among the Gentiles because of you, even as it is written. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.2.25" data-parsed="Rom_2_25_0_0" data-passage="Rom 2.25" id="Rom.2.25"/><sup>25</sup>For circumcision indeed profiteth, if thou be a doer of the law: but if thou be a transgressor of the law, thy circumcision is become uncircumcision. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.2.26" data-parsed="Rom_2_26_0_0" data-passage="Rom 2.26" id="Rom.2.26"/><sup>26</sup>If therefore the uncircumcision keep the ordinances of the law, shall not his uncircumcision be reckoned for circumcision? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.2.27" data-parsed="Rom_2_27_0_0" data-passage="Rom 2.27" id="Rom.2.27"/><sup>27</sup>and shall not the uncircumcision which is by nature, if it fulfil the law, judge thee, who with the letter and circumcision art a transgressor of the law? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.2.28" data-parsed="Rom_2_28_0_0" data-passage="Rom 2.28" id="Rom.2.28"/><sup>28</sup>For he is not a Jew who is one outwardly; neither is that circumcision which is outward in the flesh:

<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.2.29" data-parsed="Rom_2_29_0_0" data-passage="Rom 2.29" id="Rom.2.29"/><sup>29</sup>but he is a Jew who is one inwardly; and circumcision is that of the heart, in the spirit not in the letter; whose praise is not of men, but of God.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>