<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Romans 3</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Romans 3</span></div><div data-next="Rom.4" data-prev="Rom.2" data-progress="90.96%" data-shorttitle="" id="Rom.3" title="Romans 3">
<h2 id="Rom.3-p0.1">3</h2>
<p id="Rom.3-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.3.1" data-parsed="Rom_3_1_0_0" data-passage="Rom 3.1" id="Rom.3.1"/><sup>1</sup>What advantage then hath the Jew? or what is the profit of circumcision? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.3.2" data-parsed="Rom_3_2_0_0" data-passage="Rom 3.2" id="Rom.3.2"/><sup>2</sup>Much every way: first of all, that they were intrusted with the oracles of God. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.3.3" data-parsed="Rom_3_3_0_0" data-passage="Rom 3.3" id="Rom.3.3"/><sup>3</sup>For what if some were without faith? shall their want of faith make of none effect the faithfulness of God? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.3.4" data-parsed="Rom_3_4_0_0" data-passage="Rom 3.4" id="Rom.3.4"/><sup>4</sup>God forbid: yea, let God be found true, but every man a liar; as it is written,</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Rom.3-p2">
That thou mightest be justified in thy words,</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Rom.3-p3">
And mightest prevail when thou comest into judgment.</p>
<p id="Rom.3-p4">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.3.5" data-parsed="Rom_3_5_0_0" data-passage="Rom 3.5" id="Rom.3.5"/><sup>5</sup>But if our righteousness commendeth the righteousness of God, what shall we say? Is God unrighteous who visiteth with wrath? (I speak after the manner of men.) 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.3.6" data-parsed="Rom_3_6_0_0" data-passage="Rom 3.6" id="Rom.3.6"/><sup>6</sup>God forbid: for then how shall God judge the world? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.3.7" data-parsed="Rom_3_7_0_0" data-passage="Rom 3.7" id="Rom.3.7"/><sup>7</sup>But if the truth of God through my lie abounded unto his glory, why am I also still judged as a sinner? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.3.8" data-parsed="Rom_3_8_0_0" data-passage="Rom 3.8" id="Rom.3.8"/><sup>8</sup>and why not (as we are slanderously reported, and as some affirm that we say), Let us do evil, that good may come? whose condemnation is just. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.3.9" data-parsed="Rom_3_9_0_0" data-passage="Rom 3.9" id="Rom.3.9"/><sup>9</sup>What then? are we better than they? No, in no wise: for we before laid to the charge both of Jews and Greeks, that they are all under sin; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.3.10" data-parsed="Rom_3_10_0_0" data-passage="Rom 3.10" id="Rom.3.10"/><sup>10</sup>as it is written,</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Rom.3-p5">
There is none righteous, no, not one;</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Rom.3-p6">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.3.11" data-parsed="Rom_3_11_0_0" data-passage="Rom 3.11" id="Rom.3.11"/><sup>11</sup>There is none that understandeth,</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Rom.3-p7">
There is none that seeketh after God;</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Rom.3-p8">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.3.12" data-parsed="Rom_3_12_0_0" data-passage="Rom 3.12" id="Rom.3.12"/><sup>12</sup>They have all turned aside, they are together become unprofitable;</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Rom.3-p9">
There is none that doeth good, no, not, so much as one:</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Rom.3-p10">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.3.13" data-parsed="Rom_3_13_0_0" data-passage="Rom 3.13" id="Rom.3.13"/><sup>13</sup>Their throat is an open sepulchre;</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Rom.3-p11">
With their tongues they have used deceit:</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Rom.3-p12">
The poison of asps is under their lips:</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Rom.3-p13">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.3.14" data-parsed="Rom_3_14_0_0" data-passage="Rom 3.14" id="Rom.3.14"/><sup>14</sup>Whose mouth is full of cursing and bitterness:</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Rom.3-p14">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.3.15" data-parsed="Rom_3_15_0_0" data-passage="Rom 3.15" id="Rom.3.15"/><sup>15</sup>Their feet are swift to shed blood;</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Rom.3-p15">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.3.16" data-parsed="Rom_3_16_0_0" data-passage="Rom 3.16" id="Rom.3.16"/><sup>16</sup>Destruction and misery are in their ways;</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Rom.3-p16">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.3.17" data-parsed="Rom_3_17_0_0" data-passage="Rom 3.17" id="Rom.3.17"/><sup>17</sup>And the way of peace have they not known:</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Rom.3-p17">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.3.18" data-parsed="Rom_3_18_0_0" data-passage="Rom 3.18" id="Rom.3.18"/><sup>18</sup>There is no fear of God before their eyes.</p>
<p id="Rom.3-p18">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.3.19" data-parsed="Rom_3_19_0_0" data-passage="Rom 3.19" id="Rom.3.19"/><sup>19</sup>Now we know that what things soever the law saith, it speaketh to them that are under the law; that every mouth may be stopped, and all the world may be brought under the judgment of God: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.3.20" data-parsed="Rom_3_20_0_0" data-passage="Rom 3.20" id="Rom.3.20"/><sup>20</sup>because by the works of the law shall no flesh be justified in his sight; for through the law <i>cometh</i> the knowledge of sin. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.3.21" data-parsed="Rom_3_21_0_0" data-passage="Rom 3.21" id="Rom.3.21"/><sup>21</sup>But now apart from the law a righteousness of God hath been manifested, being witnessed by the law and the prophets; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.3.22" data-parsed="Rom_3_22_0_0" data-passage="Rom 3.22" id="Rom.3.22"/><sup>22</sup>even the righteousness of God through faith in Jesus Christ unto all them that believe; for there is no distinction; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.3.23" data-parsed="Rom_3_23_0_0" data-passage="Rom 3.23" id="Rom.3.23"/><sup>23</sup>for all have sinned, and fall short of the glory of God; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.3.24" data-parsed="Rom_3_24_0_0" data-passage="Rom 3.24" id="Rom.3.24"/><sup>24</sup>being justified freely by his grace through the redemption that is in Christ Jesus: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.3.25" data-parsed="Rom_3_25_0_0" data-passage="Rom 3.25" id="Rom.3.25"/><sup>25</sup>whom God set forth <i>to be</i> a propitiation, through faith, in his blood, to show his righteousness because of the passing over of the sins done aforetime, in the forbearance of God; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.3.26" data-parsed="Rom_3_26_0_0" data-passage="Rom 3.26" id="Rom.3.26"/><sup>26</sup>for the showing, <i>I say</i>, of his righteousness at this present season: that he might himself be just, and the justifier of him that hath faith in Jesus. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.3.27" data-parsed="Rom_3_27_0_0" data-passage="Rom 3.27" id="Rom.3.27"/><sup>27</sup>Where then is the glorying? It is excluded. By what manner of law? of works? Nay: but by a law of faith. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.3.28" data-parsed="Rom_3_28_0_0" data-passage="Rom 3.28" id="Rom.3.28"/><sup>28</sup>We reckon therefore that a man is justified by faith apart from the works of the law.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.3.29" data-parsed="Rom_3_29_0_0" data-passage="Rom 3.29" id="Rom.3.29"/><sup>29</sup>Or is God <i>the God</i> of Jews only? is he not <i>the God</i> of Gentiles also? Yea, of Gentiles also: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.3.30" data-parsed="Rom_3_30_0_0" data-passage="Rom 3.30" id="Rom.3.30"/><sup>30</sup>if so be that God is one, and he shall justify the circumcision by faith, and the uncircumcision through faith. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.3.31" data-parsed="Rom_3_31_0_0" data-passage="Rom 3.31" id="Rom.3.31"/><sup>31</sup>Do we then make the law of none effect through faith? God forbid: nay, we establish the law.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>