<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Romans 6</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Romans 6</span></div><div data-next="Rom.7" data-prev="Rom.5" data-progress="91.17%" data-shorttitle="" id="Rom.6" title="Romans 6">
<h2 id="Rom.6-p0.1">6</h2>
<p id="Rom.6-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.6.1" data-parsed="Rom_6_1_0_0" data-passage="Rom 6.1" id="Rom.6.1"/><sup>1</sup>What shall we say then? Shall we continue in sin, that grace may abound? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.6.2" data-parsed="Rom_6_2_0_0" data-passage="Rom 6.2" id="Rom.6.2"/><sup>2</sup>God forbid. We who died to sin, how shall we any longer live therein? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.6.3" data-parsed="Rom_6_3_0_0" data-passage="Rom 6.3" id="Rom.6.3"/><sup>3</sup>Or are ye ignorant that all we who were baptized into Christ Jesus were baptized into his death? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.6.4" data-parsed="Rom_6_4_0_0" data-passage="Rom 6.4" id="Rom.6.4"/><sup>4</sup>We were buried therefore with him through baptism unto death: that like as Christ was raised from the dead through the glory of the Father, so we also might walk in newness of life.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.6.5" data-parsed="Rom_6_5_0_0" data-passage="Rom 6.5" id="Rom.6.5"/><sup>5</sup>For if we have become united with <i>him</i> in the likeness of his death, we shall be also <i>in the likeness</i> of his resurrection;

<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.6.6" data-parsed="Rom_6_6_0_0" data-passage="Rom 6.6" id="Rom.6.6"/><sup>6</sup>knowing this, that our old man was crucified with <i>him</i>, that the body of sin might be done away, that so we should no longer be in bondage to sin; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.6.7" data-parsed="Rom_6_7_0_0" data-passage="Rom 6.7" id="Rom.6.7"/><sup>7</sup>for he that hath died is justified from sin. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.6.8" data-parsed="Rom_6_8_0_0" data-passage="Rom 6.8" id="Rom.6.8"/><sup>8</sup>But if we died with Christ, we believe that we shall also live with him; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.6.9" data-parsed="Rom_6_9_0_0" data-passage="Rom 6.9" id="Rom.6.9"/><sup>9</sup>knowing that Christ being raised from the dead dieth no more; death no more hath dominion over him. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.6.10" data-parsed="Rom_6_10_0_0" data-passage="Rom 6.10" id="Rom.6.10"/><sup>10</sup>For the death that he died, he died unto sin once: but the life that he liveth, he liveth unto God. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.6.11" data-parsed="Rom_6_11_0_0" data-passage="Rom 6.11" id="Rom.6.11"/><sup>11</sup>Even so reckon ye also yourselves to be dead unto sin, but alive unto God in Christ Jesus. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.6.12" data-parsed="Rom_6_12_0_0" data-passage="Rom 6.12" id="Rom.6.12"/><sup>12</sup>Let not sin therefore reign in your mortal body, that ye should obey the lusts thereof: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.6.13" data-parsed="Rom_6_13_0_0" data-passage="Rom 6.13" id="Rom.6.13"/><sup>13</sup>neither present your members unto sin <i>as</i> instruments of unrighteousness; but present yourselves unto God, as alive from the dead,
and your members <i>as</i> instruments of righteousness unto God. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.6.14" data-parsed="Rom_6_14_0_0" data-passage="Rom 6.14" id="Rom.6.14"/><sup>14</sup>For sin shall not have dominion over you: for ye are not under law, but under grace. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.6.15" data-parsed="Rom_6_15_0_0" data-passage="Rom 6.15" id="Rom.6.15"/><sup>15</sup>What then? shall we sin, because we are not under law, but under grace? God forbid. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.6.16" data-parsed="Rom_6_16_0_0" data-passage="Rom 6.16" id="Rom.6.16"/><sup>16</sup>Know ye not, that to whom ye present yourselves <i>as</i> servants unto obedience, his servants ye are whom ye obey; whether of sin unto death, or of obedience unto righteousness? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.6.17" data-parsed="Rom_6_17_0_0" data-passage="Rom 6.17" id="Rom.6.17"/><sup>17</sup>But thanks be to God, that, whereas ye were servants of sin, ye became obedient from the heart to that form of teaching whereunto ye were delivered; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.6.18" data-parsed="Rom_6_18_0_0" data-passage="Rom 6.18" id="Rom.6.18"/><sup>18</sup>and being made free from sin, ye became servants of righteousness. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.6.19" data-parsed="Rom_6_19_0_0" data-passage="Rom 6.19" id="Rom.6.19"/><sup>19</sup>I speak after the manner of men because of the infirmity of your flesh: for as ye presented your members <i>as</i> servants to uncleanness and to iniquity unto iniquity, even so now present your members <i>as</i> servants to righteousness unto sanctification. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.6.20" data-parsed="Rom_6_20_0_0" data-passage="Rom 6.20" id="Rom.6.20"/><sup>20</sup>For when ye were servants of sin, ye were free in regard of righteousness. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.6.21" data-parsed="Rom_6_21_0_0" data-passage="Rom 6.21" id="Rom.6.21"/><sup>21</sup>What fruit then had ye at that time in the things whereof ye are now ashamed? for the end of those things is death. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.6.22" data-parsed="Rom_6_22_0_0" data-passage="Rom 6.22" id="Rom.6.22"/><sup>22</sup>But now being made free from sin and become servants to God, ye have your fruit unto sanctification, and the end eternal life. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.6.23" data-parsed="Rom_6_23_0_0" data-passage="Rom 6.23" id="Rom.6.23"/><sup>23</sup>For the wages of sin is death; but the free gift of God is eternal life in Christ Jesus our Lord.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>