<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Romans 7</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Romans 7</span></div><div data-next="Rom.8" data-prev="Rom.6" data-progress="91.23%" data-shorttitle="" id="Rom.7" title="Romans 7">
<h2 id="Rom.7-p0.1">7</h2>
<p id="Rom.7-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.7.1" data-parsed="Rom_7_1_0_0" data-passage="Rom 7.1" id="Rom.7.1"/><sup>1</sup>Or are ye ignorant, brethren (for I speak to men who know the law),
that the law hath dominion over a man for so long time as he liveth? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.7.2" data-parsed="Rom_7_2_0_0" data-passage="Rom 7.2" id="Rom.7.2"/><sup>2</sup>For the woman that hath a husband is bound by law to the husband while he liveth;
but if the husband die, she is discharged from the law of the husband.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.7.3" data-parsed="Rom_7_3_0_0" data-passage="Rom 7.3" id="Rom.7.3"/><sup>3</sup>So then if, while the husband liveth, she be joined to another man, she shall be called an adulteress: but if the husband die, she is free from the law, so that she is no adulteress, though she be joined to another man.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.7.4" data-parsed="Rom_7_4_0_0" data-passage="Rom 7.4" id="Rom.7.4"/><sup>4</sup>Wherefore, my brethren, ye also were made dead to the law through the body of Christ; that ye should be joined to another, <i>even</i> to him who was raised from the dead, that we might bring forth fruit unto God. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.7.5" data-parsed="Rom_7_5_0_0" data-passage="Rom 7.5" id="Rom.7.5"/><sup>5</sup>For when we were in the flesh, the sinful passions, which were through the law,
wrought in our members to bring forth fruit unto death. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.7.6" data-parsed="Rom_7_6_0_0" data-passage="Rom 7.6" id="Rom.7.6"/><sup>6</sup>But now we have been discharged from the law, having died to that wherein we were held; so that we serve in newness of the spirit, and not in oldness of the letter.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.7.7" data-parsed="Rom_7_7_0_0" data-passage="Rom 7.7" id="Rom.7.7"/><sup>7</sup>What shall we say then? Is the law sin? God forbid. Howbeit, I had not known sin, except through the law: for I had not known coveting, except the law had said, Thou shalt not covet: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.7.8" data-parsed="Rom_7_8_0_0" data-passage="Rom 7.8" id="Rom.7.8"/><sup>8</sup>but sin, finding occasion, wrought in me through the commandment all manner of coveting: for apart from the law sin <i>is</i> dead. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.7.9" data-parsed="Rom_7_9_0_0" data-passage="Rom 7.9" id="Rom.7.9"/><sup>9</sup>And I was alive apart from the law once: but when the commandment came, sin revived, and I died; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.7.10" data-parsed="Rom_7_10_0_0" data-passage="Rom 7.10" id="Rom.7.10"/><sup>10</sup>and the commandment,
which <i>was</i> unto life, this I found <i>to be</i> unto death: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.7.11" data-parsed="Rom_7_11_0_0" data-passage="Rom 7.11" id="Rom.7.11"/><sup>11</sup>for sin, finding occasion, through the commandment beguiled me, and through it slew me. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.7.12" data-parsed="Rom_7_12_0_0" data-passage="Rom 7.12" id="Rom.7.12"/><sup>12</sup>So that the law is holy, and the commandment holy, and righteous, and good. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.7.13" data-parsed="Rom_7_13_0_0" data-passage="Rom 7.13" id="Rom.7.13"/><sup>13</sup>Did then that which is good become death unto me?
God forbid. But sin, that it might be shown to be sin, by working death to me through that which is good; --that through the commandment sin might become exceeding sinful. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.7.14" data-parsed="Rom_7_14_0_0" data-passage="Rom 7.14" id="Rom.7.14"/><sup>14</sup>For we know that the law is spiritual: but I am carnal, sold under sin. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.7.15" data-parsed="Rom_7_15_0_0" data-passage="Rom 7.15" id="Rom.7.15"/><sup>15</sup>For that which I do I know not: for not what I would, that do I practise; but what I hate, that I do. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.7.16" data-parsed="Rom_7_16_0_0" data-passage="Rom 7.16" id="Rom.7.16"/><sup>16</sup>But if what I would not, that I do, I consent unto the law that it is good. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.7.17" data-parsed="Rom_7_17_0_0" data-passage="Rom 7.17" id="Rom.7.17"/><sup>17</sup>So now it is no more I that do it, but sin which dwelleth in me. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.7.18" data-parsed="Rom_7_18_0_0" data-passage="Rom 7.18" id="Rom.7.18"/><sup>18</sup>For I know that in me, that is, in my flesh, dwelleth no good thing: for to will is present with me, but to do that which is good <i>is</i> not. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.7.19" data-parsed="Rom_7_19_0_0" data-passage="Rom 7.19" id="Rom.7.19"/><sup>19</sup>For the good which I would I do not: but the evil which I would not, that I practise.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.7.20" data-parsed="Rom_7_20_0_0" data-passage="Rom 7.20" id="Rom.7.20"/><sup>20</sup>But if what I would not, that I do, it is no more I that do it, but sin which dwelleth in me. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.7.21" data-parsed="Rom_7_21_0_0" data-passage="Rom 7.21" id="Rom.7.21"/><sup>21</sup>I find then the law, that, to me who would do good, evil is present. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.7.22" data-parsed="Rom_7_22_0_0" data-passage="Rom 7.22" id="Rom.7.22"/><sup>22</sup>For I delight in the law of God after the inward man: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.7.23" data-parsed="Rom_7_23_0_0" data-passage="Rom 7.23" id="Rom.7.23"/><sup>23</sup>but I see a different law in my members, warring against the law of my mind, and bringing me into captivity under the law of sin which is in my members. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.7.24" data-parsed="Rom_7_24_0_0" data-passage="Rom 7.24" id="Rom.7.24"/><sup>24</sup>Wretched man that I am! who shall deliver me out of the body of this death? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.7.25" data-parsed="Rom_7_25_0_0" data-passage="Rom 7.25" id="Rom.7.25"/><sup>25</sup>I thank God through Jesus Christ our Lord. So then I of myself with the mind, indeed, serve the law of God; but with the flesh the law of sin.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>