<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Romans 8</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Romans 8</span></div><div data-next="Rom.9" data-prev="Rom.7" data-progress="91.30%" data-shorttitle="" id="Rom.8" title="Romans 8">
<h2 id="Rom.8-p0.1">8</h2>
<p id="Rom.8-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.8.1" data-parsed="Rom_8_1_0_0" data-passage="Rom 8.1" id="Rom.8.1"/><sup>1</sup>There is therefore now no condemnation to them that are in Christ Jesus. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.8.2" data-parsed="Rom_8_2_0_0" data-passage="Rom 8.2" id="Rom.8.2"/><sup>2</sup>For the law of the Spirit of life in Christ Jesus made me free from the law of sin and of death. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.8.3" data-parsed="Rom_8_3_0_0" data-passage="Rom 8.3" id="Rom.8.3"/><sup>3</sup>For what the law could not do, in that it was weak through the flesh, God, sending his own Son in the likeness of sinful flesh and for sin, condemned sin in the flesh: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.8.4" data-parsed="Rom_8_4_0_0" data-passage="Rom 8.4" id="Rom.8.4"/><sup>4</sup>that the ordinance of the law might be fulfilled in us, who walk not after the flesh, but after the Spirit. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.8.5" data-parsed="Rom_8_5_0_0" data-passage="Rom 8.5" id="Rom.8.5"/><sup>5</sup>For they that are after the flesh mind the things of the flesh; but they that are after the Spirit the things of the Spirit. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.8.6" data-parsed="Rom_8_6_0_0" data-passage="Rom 8.6" id="Rom.8.6"/><sup>6</sup>For the mind of the flesh is death; but the mind of the Spirit is life and peace:

<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.8.7" data-parsed="Rom_8_7_0_0" data-passage="Rom 8.7" id="Rom.8.7"/><sup>7</sup>because the mind of the flesh is enmity against God; for it is not subject to the law of God, neither indeed can it be: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.8.8" data-parsed="Rom_8_8_0_0" data-passage="Rom 8.8" id="Rom.8.8"/><sup>8</sup>and they that are in the flesh cannot please God. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.8.9" data-parsed="Rom_8_9_0_0" data-passage="Rom 8.9" id="Rom.8.9"/><sup>9</sup>But ye are not in the flesh but in the Spirit, if so be that the Spirit of God dwelleth in you. But if any man hath not the Spirit of Christ, he is none of his. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.8.10" data-parsed="Rom_8_10_0_0" data-passage="Rom 8.10" id="Rom.8.10"/><sup>10</sup>And if Christ is in you,
the body is dead because of sin; but the spirit is life because of righteousness. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.8.11" data-parsed="Rom_8_11_0_0" data-passage="Rom 8.11" id="Rom.8.11"/><sup>11</sup>But if the Spirit of him that raised up Jesus from the dead dwelleth in you, he that raised up Christ Jesus from the dead shall give life also to your mortal bodies through his Spirit that dwelleth in you.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.8.12" data-parsed="Rom_8_12_0_0" data-passage="Rom 8.12" id="Rom.8.12"/><sup>12</sup>So then, brethren, we are debtors, not to the flesh, to live after the flesh: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.8.13" data-parsed="Rom_8_13_0_0" data-passage="Rom 8.13" id="Rom.8.13"/><sup>13</sup>for if ye live after the flesh, ye must die; but if by the Spirit ye put to death the deeds of the body, ye shall live. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.8.14" data-parsed="Rom_8_14_0_0" data-passage="Rom 8.14" id="Rom.8.14"/><sup>14</sup>For as many as are led by the Spirit of God, these are sons of God. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.8.15" data-parsed="Rom_8_15_0_0" data-passage="Rom 8.15" id="Rom.8.15"/><sup>15</sup>For ye received not the spirit of bondage again unto fear; but ye received the spirit of adoption, whereby we cry, Abba, Father. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.8.16" data-parsed="Rom_8_16_0_0" data-passage="Rom 8.16" id="Rom.8.16"/><sup>16</sup>The Spirit himself beareth witness with our spirit, that we are children of God: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.8.17" data-parsed="Rom_8_17_0_0" data-passage="Rom 8.17" id="Rom.8.17"/><sup>17</sup>and if children, then heirs; heirs of God, and joint-heirs with Christ; if so be that we suffer with <i>him</i>, that we may be also glorified with <i>him</i>. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.8.18" data-parsed="Rom_8_18_0_0" data-passage="Rom 8.18" id="Rom.8.18"/><sup>18</sup>For I reckon that the sufferings of this present time are not worthy to be compared with the glory which shall be revealed to us-ward.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.8.19" data-parsed="Rom_8_19_0_0" data-passage="Rom 8.19" id="Rom.8.19"/><sup>19</sup>For the earnest expectation of the creation waiteth for the revealing of the sons of God. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.8.20" data-parsed="Rom_8_20_0_0" data-passage="Rom 8.20" id="Rom.8.20"/><sup>20</sup>For the creation was subjected to vanity, not of its own will, but by reason of him who subjected it, in hope 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.8.21" data-parsed="Rom_8_21_0_0" data-passage="Rom 8.21" id="Rom.8.21"/><sup>21</sup>that the creation itself also shall be delivered from the bondage of corruption into the liberty of the glory of the children of God. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.8.22" data-parsed="Rom_8_22_0_0" data-passage="Rom 8.22" id="Rom.8.22"/><sup>22</sup>For we know that the whole creation groaneth and travaileth in pain together until now. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.8.23" data-parsed="Rom_8_23_0_0" data-passage="Rom 8.23" id="Rom.8.23"/><sup>23</sup>And not only so, but ourselves also, who have the first-fruits of the Spirit,
even we ourselves groan within ourselves, waiting for <i>our</i> adoption,
<i>to wit</i>, the redemption of our body. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.8.24" data-parsed="Rom_8_24_0_0" data-passage="Rom 8.24" id="Rom.8.24"/><sup>24</sup>For in hope were we saved:
but hope that is seen is not hope: for who hopeth for that which he seeth?

<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.8.25" data-parsed="Rom_8_25_0_0" data-passage="Rom 8.25" id="Rom.8.25"/><sup>25</sup>But if we hope for that which we see not, <i>then</i> do we with patience wait for it. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.8.26" data-parsed="Rom_8_26_0_0" data-passage="Rom 8.26" id="Rom.8.26"/><sup>26</sup>And in like manner the Spirit also helpeth our infirmity: for we know not how to pray as we ought; but the Spirit himself maketh intercession for <i>us</i> with groanings which cannot be uttered;

<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.8.27" data-parsed="Rom_8_27_0_0" data-passage="Rom 8.27" id="Rom.8.27"/><sup>27</sup>and he that searcheth the hearts knoweth what is the mind of the Spirit, because he maketh intercession for the saints according to <i>the will of</i> God. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.8.28" data-parsed="Rom_8_28_0_0" data-passage="Rom 8.28" id="Rom.8.28"/><sup>28</sup>And we know that to them that love God all things work together for good, <i>even</i> to them that are called according to <i>his</i> purpose. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.8.29" data-parsed="Rom_8_29_0_0" data-passage="Rom 8.29" id="Rom.8.29"/><sup>29</sup>For whom he foreknew, he also foreordained <i>to be</i> conformed to the image of his Son, that he might be the firstborn among many brethren: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.8.30" data-parsed="Rom_8_30_0_0" data-passage="Rom 8.30" id="Rom.8.30"/><sup>30</sup>and whom he foreordained, them he also called: and whom he called, them he also justified: and whom he justified, them he also glorified. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.8.31" data-parsed="Rom_8_31_0_0" data-passage="Rom 8.31" id="Rom.8.31"/><sup>31</sup>What then shall we say to these things? If God <i>is</i>
for us, who <i>is</i> against us? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.8.32" data-parsed="Rom_8_32_0_0" data-passage="Rom 8.32" id="Rom.8.32"/><sup>32</sup>He that spared not his own Son, but delivered him up for us all, how shall he not also with him freely give us all things? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.8.33" data-parsed="Rom_8_33_0_0" data-passage="Rom 8.33" id="Rom.8.33"/><sup>33</sup>Who shall lay anything to the charge of God's elect? It is God that justifieth; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.8.34" data-parsed="Rom_8_34_0_0" data-passage="Rom 8.34" id="Rom.8.34"/><sup>34</sup>who is he that condemneth? It is Christ Jesus that died, yea rather, that was raised from the dead, who is at the right hand of God, who also maketh intercession for us. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.8.35" data-parsed="Rom_8_35_0_0" data-passage="Rom 8.35" id="Rom.8.35"/><sup>35</sup>Who shall separate us from the love of Christ? shall tribulation, or anguish, or persecution, or famine,
or nakedness, or peril, or sword? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.8.36" data-parsed="Rom_8_36_0_0" data-passage="Rom 8.36" id="Rom.8.36"/><sup>36</sup>Even as it is written, For thy sake we are killed all the day long; We were accounted as sheep for the slaughter.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.8.37" data-parsed="Rom_8_37_0_0" data-passage="Rom 8.37" id="Rom.8.37"/><sup>37</sup>Nay, in all these things we are more than conquerors through him that loved us. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.8.38" data-parsed="Rom_8_38_0_0" data-passage="Rom 8.38" id="Rom.8.38"/><sup>38</sup>For I am persuaded, that neither death, nor life, nor angels,
nor principalities, nor things present, nor things to come, nor powers,

<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.8.39" data-parsed="Rom_8_39_0_0" data-passage="Rom 8.39" id="Rom.8.39"/><sup>39</sup>nor height, nor depth, nor any other creature, shall be able to separate us from the love of God, which is in Christ Jesus our Lord.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>