<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Romans 9</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Romans 9</span></div><div data-next="Rom.10" data-prev="Rom.8" data-progress="91.41%" data-shorttitle="" id="Rom.9" title="Romans 9">
<h2 id="Rom.9-p0.1">9</h2>
<p id="Rom.9-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.9.1" data-parsed="Rom_9_1_0_0" data-passage="Rom 9.1" id="Rom.9.1"/><sup>1</sup>I say the truth in Christ, I lie not, my conscience bearing witness with me in the Holy Spirit, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.9.2" data-parsed="Rom_9_2_0_0" data-passage="Rom 9.2" id="Rom.9.2"/><sup>2</sup>that I have great sorrow and unceasing pain in my heart. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.9.3" data-parsed="Rom_9_3_0_0" data-passage="Rom 9.3" id="Rom.9.3"/><sup>3</sup>For I could wish that I myself were anathema from Christ for my brethren's sake, my kinsmen according to the flesh: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.9.4" data-parsed="Rom_9_4_0_0" data-passage="Rom 9.4" id="Rom.9.4"/><sup>4</sup>who are Israelites; whose is the adoption, and the glory, and the covenants, and the giving of the law, and the service <i>of God</i>, and the promises;

<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.9.5" data-parsed="Rom_9_5_0_0" data-passage="Rom 9.5" id="Rom.9.5"/><sup>5</sup>whose are the fathers, and of whom is Christ as concerning the flesh,
who is over all, God blessed for ever. Amen. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.9.6" data-parsed="Rom_9_6_0_0" data-passage="Rom 9.6" id="Rom.9.6"/><sup>6</sup>But <i>it is</i> not as though the word of God hath come to nought. For they are not all Israel, that are of Israel: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.9.7" data-parsed="Rom_9_7_0_0" data-passage="Rom 9.7" id="Rom.9.7"/><sup>7</sup>neither, because they are Abraham's seed, are they all children: but, In Isaac shall thy seed be called. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.9.8" data-parsed="Rom_9_8_0_0" data-passage="Rom 9.8" id="Rom.9.8"/><sup>8</sup>That is, it is not the children of the flesh that are children of God; but the children of the promise are reckoned for a seed. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.9.9" data-parsed="Rom_9_9_0_0" data-passage="Rom 9.9" id="Rom.9.9"/><sup>9</sup>For this is a word of promise,
According to this season will I come, and Sarah shall have a son. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.9.10" data-parsed="Rom_9_10_0_0" data-passage="Rom 9.10" id="Rom.9.10"/><sup>10</sup>And not only so; but Rebecca also having conceived by one, <i>even</i> by our father Isaac-- 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.9.11" data-parsed="Rom_9_11_0_0" data-passage="Rom 9.11" id="Rom.9.11"/><sup>11</sup>for <i>the children</i> being not yet born, neither having done anything good or bad, that the purpose of God according to election might stand, not of works, but of him that calleth, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.9.12" data-parsed="Rom_9_12_0_0" data-passage="Rom 9.12" id="Rom.9.12"/><sup>12</sup>it was said unto her, The elder shall serve the younger. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.9.13" data-parsed="Rom_9_13_0_0" data-passage="Rom 9.13" id="Rom.9.13"/><sup>13</sup>Even as it is written, Jacob I loved, but Esau I hated. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.9.14" data-parsed="Rom_9_14_0_0" data-passage="Rom 9.14" id="Rom.9.14"/><sup>14</sup>What shall we say then? Is there unrighteousness with God? God forbid. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.9.15" data-parsed="Rom_9_15_0_0" data-passage="Rom 9.15" id="Rom.9.15"/><sup>15</sup>For he saith to Moses, I will have mercy on whom I have mercy, and I will have compassion on whom I have compassion. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.9.16" data-parsed="Rom_9_16_0_0" data-passage="Rom 9.16" id="Rom.9.16"/><sup>16</sup>So then it is not of him that willeth, nor of him that runneth, but of God that hath mercy. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.9.17" data-parsed="Rom_9_17_0_0" data-passage="Rom 9.17" id="Rom.9.17"/><sup>17</sup>For the span saith unto Pharaoh, For this very purpose did I raise thee up, that I might show in thee my power, and that my name might be published abroad in all the earth.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.9.18" data-parsed="Rom_9_18_0_0" data-passage="Rom 9.18" id="Rom.9.18"/><sup>18</sup>So then he hath mercy on whom he will, and whom he will be hardeneth.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.9.19" data-parsed="Rom_9_19_0_0" data-passage="Rom 9.19" id="Rom.9.19"/><sup>19</sup>Thou wilt say then unto me, Why doth he still find fault? For who withstandeth his will? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.9.20" data-parsed="Rom_9_20_0_0" data-passage="Rom 9.20" id="Rom.9.20"/><sup>20</sup>Nay but, O man, who art thou that repliest against God? Shall the thing formed say to him that formed it, Why didst thou make me thus? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.9.21" data-parsed="Rom_9_21_0_0" data-passage="Rom 9.21" id="Rom.9.21"/><sup>21</sup>Or hath not the potter a right over the clay, from the same lump to make one part a vessel unto honor, and another unto dishonor?

<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.9.22" data-parsed="Rom_9_22_0_0" data-passage="Rom 9.22" id="Rom.9.22"/><sup>22</sup>What if God, willing to show his wrath, and to make his power known,
endured with much longsuffering vessels of wrath fitted unto destruction:

<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.9.23" data-parsed="Rom_9_23_0_0" data-passage="Rom 9.23" id="Rom.9.23"/><sup>23</sup>and that he might make known the riches of his glory upon vessels of mercy, which he afore prepared unto glory, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.9.24" data-parsed="Rom_9_24_0_0" data-passage="Rom 9.24" id="Rom.9.24"/><sup>24</sup><i>even</i> us, whom he also called, not from the Jews only, but also from the Gentiles? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.9.25" data-parsed="Rom_9_25_0_0" data-passage="Rom 9.25" id="Rom.9.25"/><sup>25</sup>As he saith also in Hosea,</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Rom.9-p2">
I will call that my people, which was not my people;</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Rom.9-p3">
And her beloved, that was not beloved.</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Rom.9-p4">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.9.26" data-parsed="Rom_9_26_0_0" data-passage="Rom 9.26" id="Rom.9.26"/><sup>26</sup>And it shall be, <i>that</i> in the place where it was said unto them,
Ye are not my people,</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Rom.9-p5">
There shall they be called sons of the living God.</p>
<p id="Rom.9-p6">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.9.27" data-parsed="Rom_9_27_0_0" data-passage="Rom 9.27" id="Rom.9.27"/><sup>27</sup>And Isaiah crieth concerning Israel, If the number of the children of Israel be as the sand of the sea, it is the remnant that shall be saved:

<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.9.28" data-parsed="Rom_9_28_0_0" data-passage="Rom 9.28" id="Rom.9.28"/><sup>28</sup>for the Lord will execute <i>his</i> word upon the earth, finishing it and cutting it short. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.9.29" data-parsed="Rom_9_29_0_0" data-passage="Rom 9.29" id="Rom.9.29"/><sup>29</sup>And, as Isaiah hath said before,</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Rom.9-p7">
Except the Lord of Sabaoth had left us a seed,</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Rom.9-p8">
We had become as Sodom, and had been made like unto Gomorrah.</p>
<p id="Rom.9-p9">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.9.30" data-parsed="Rom_9_30_0_0" data-passage="Rom 9.30" id="Rom.9.30"/><sup>30</sup>What shall we say then? That the Gentiles, who followed not after righteousness, attained to righteousness, even the righteousness which is of faith: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.9.31" data-parsed="Rom_9_31_0_0" data-passage="Rom 9.31" id="Rom.9.31"/><sup>31</sup>but Israel, following after a law of righteousness, did not arrive at <i>that</i> law. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.9.32" data-parsed="Rom_9_32_0_0" data-passage="Rom 9.32" id="Rom.9.32"/><sup>32</sup>Wherefore? Because <i>they sought it</i>
not by faith, but as it were by works. They stumbled at the stone of stumbling; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Rom.9.33" data-parsed="Rom_9_33_0_0" data-passage="Rom 9.33" id="Rom.9.33"/><sup>33</sup>even as it is written,</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Rom.9-p10">
Behold, I lay in Zion a stone of stumbling and a rock of offence:</p>
<p class="poetry" id="Rom.9-p11">
And he that believeth on him shall not be put to shame.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>