<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Ruth 2</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Ruth 2</span></div><div data-next="Ruth.3" data-prev="Ruth.1" data-progress="25.19%" data-shorttitle="" id="Ruth.2" title="Ruth 2">
<h2 id="Ruth.2-p0.1">2</h2>
<p id="Ruth.2-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ruth.2.1" data-parsed="Ruth_2_1_0_0" data-passage="Ruth 2.1" id="Ruth.2.1"/><sup>1</sup>And Naomi had a kinsman of her husband's, a mighty man of wealth,
of the family of Elimelech, and his name was Boaz. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ruth.2.2" data-parsed="Ruth_2_2_0_0" data-passage="Ruth 2.2" id="Ruth.2.2"/><sup>2</sup>And Ruth the Moabitess said unto Naomi, Let me now go to the field, and glean among the ears of grain after him in whose sight I shall find favor. And she said unto her, Go, my daughter. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ruth.2.3" data-parsed="Ruth_2_3_0_0" data-passage="Ruth 2.3" id="Ruth.2.3"/><sup>3</sup>And she went, and came and gleaned in the field after the reapers: and her hap was to light on the portion of the field belonging unto Boaz, who was of the family of Elimelech. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ruth.2.4" data-parsed="Ruth_2_4_0_0" data-passage="Ruth 2.4" id="Ruth.2.4"/><sup>4</sup>And, behold,
Boaz came from Bethlehem, and said unto the reapers, Jehovah be with you. And they answered him, Jehovah bless thee. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ruth.2.5" data-parsed="Ruth_2_5_0_0" data-passage="Ruth 2.5" id="Ruth.2.5"/><sup>5</sup>Then said Boaz unto his servant that was set over the reapers, Whose damsel is this? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ruth.2.6" data-parsed="Ruth_2_6_0_0" data-passage="Ruth 2.6" id="Ruth.2.6"/><sup>6</sup>And the servant that was set over the reapers answered and said, It is the Moabitish damsel that came back with Naomi out of the country of Moab: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ruth.2.7" data-parsed="Ruth_2_7_0_0" data-passage="Ruth 2.7" id="Ruth.2.7"/><sup>7</sup>And she said, Let me glean, I pray you, and gather after the reapers among the sheaves. So she came, and hath continued even from the morning until now, save that she tarried a little in the house.</p>
<p id="Ruth.2-p2">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ruth.2.8" data-parsed="Ruth_2_8_0_0" data-passage="Ruth 2.8" id="Ruth.2.8"/><sup>8</sup>Then said Boaz unto Ruth, Hearest thou not, my daughter? Go not to glean in another field, neither pass from hence, but abide here fast by my maidens.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Ruth.2.9" data-parsed="Ruth_2_9_0_0" data-passage="Ruth 2.9" id="Ruth.2.9"/><sup>9</sup>Let thine eyes be on the field that they do reap, and go thou after them: have I not charged the young men that they shall not touch thee? and when thou art athirst, go unto the vessels, and drink of that which the young men have drawn. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ruth.2.10" data-parsed="Ruth_2_10_0_0" data-passage="Ruth 2.10" id="Ruth.2.10"/><sup>10</sup>Then she fell on her face, and bowed herself to the ground, and said unto him, Why have I found favor in thy sight, that thou shouldest take knowledge of me, seeing I am a foreigner? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ruth.2.11" data-parsed="Ruth_2_11_0_0" data-passage="Ruth 2.11" id="Ruth.2.11"/><sup>11</sup>And Boaz answered and said unto her, It hath fully been showed me, all that thou hast done unto thy mother-in-law since the death of thy husband; and how thou hast left thy father and thy mother, and the land of thy nativity, and art come unto a people that thou knewest not heretofore. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ruth.2.12" data-parsed="Ruth_2_12_0_0" data-passage="Ruth 2.12" id="Ruth.2.12"/><sup>12</sup>Jehovah recompense thy work, and a full reward be given thee of Jehovah, the God of Israel, under whose wings thou art come to take refuge. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ruth.2.13" data-parsed="Ruth_2_13_0_0" data-passage="Ruth 2.13" id="Ruth.2.13"/><sup>13</sup>Then she said, Let me find favor in thy sight, my lord, for that thou hast comforted me, and for that thou hast spoken kindly unto thy handmaid, though I be not as one of thy handmaidens.</p>
<p id="Ruth.2-p3">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ruth.2.14" data-parsed="Ruth_2_14_0_0" data-passage="Ruth 2.14" id="Ruth.2.14"/><sup>14</sup>And at meal-time Boaz said unto her, Come hither, and eat of the bread,
and dip thy morsel in the vinegar. And she sat beside the reapers, and they reached her parched grain, and she did eat, and was sufficed, and left thereof. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ruth.2.15" data-parsed="Ruth_2_15_0_0" data-passage="Ruth 2.15" id="Ruth.2.15"/><sup>15</sup>And when she was risen up to glean, Boaz commanded his young men, saying, Let her glean even among the sheaves, and reproach her not.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Ruth.2.16" data-parsed="Ruth_2_16_0_0" data-passage="Ruth 2.16" id="Ruth.2.16"/><sup>16</sup>And also pull out some for her from the bundles, and leave it, and let her glean, and rebuke her not.</p>
<p id="Ruth.2-p4">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ruth.2.17" data-parsed="Ruth_2_17_0_0" data-passage="Ruth 2.17" id="Ruth.2.17"/><sup>17</sup>So she gleaned in the field until even; and she beat out that which she had gleaned, and it was about an ephah of barley. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ruth.2.18" data-parsed="Ruth_2_18_0_0" data-passage="Ruth 2.18" id="Ruth.2.18"/><sup>18</sup>And she took it up,
and went into the city; and her mother-in-law saw what she had gleaned: and she brought forth and gave to her that which she had left after she was sufficed. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ruth.2.19" data-parsed="Ruth_2_19_0_0" data-passage="Ruth 2.19" id="Ruth.2.19"/><sup>19</sup>And her mother-in-law said unto her, Where hast thou gleaned to-day? and where hast thou wrought? blessed be he that did take knowledge of thee. And she showed her mother-in-law with whom she had wrought, and said,
The man's name with whom I wrought to-day is Boaz. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ruth.2.20" data-parsed="Ruth_2_20_0_0" data-passage="Ruth 2.20" id="Ruth.2.20"/><sup>20</sup>And Naomi said unto her daughter-in-law, Blessed be he of Jehovah, who hath not left off his kindness to the living and to the dead. And Naomi said unto her, The man is nigh of kin unto us, one of our near kinsmen. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ruth.2.21" data-parsed="Ruth_2_21_0_0" data-passage="Ruth 2.21" id="Ruth.2.21"/><sup>21</sup>And Ruth the Moabitess said, Yea, he said unto me, Thou shalt keep fast by my young men, until they have ended all my harvest. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ruth.2.22" data-parsed="Ruth_2_22_0_0" data-passage="Ruth 2.22" id="Ruth.2.22"/><sup>22</sup>And Naomi said unto Ruth her daughter-in-law, It is good, my daughter, that thou go out with his maidens,
and that they meet thee not in any other field. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Ruth.2.23" data-parsed="Ruth_2_23_0_0" data-passage="Ruth 2.23" id="Ruth.2.23"/><sup>23</sup>So she kept fast by the maidens of Boaz, to glean unto the end of barley harvest and of wheat harvest; and she dwelt with her mother-in-law.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>