<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Titus 3</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Titus 3</span></div><div data-next="Phlm" data-prev="Titus.2" data-progress="96.23%" data-shorttitle="" id="Titus.3" title="Titus 3">
<h2 id="Titus.3-p0.1">3</h2>
<p id="Titus.3-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Titus.3.1" data-parsed="Titus_3_1_0_0" data-passage="Titus 3.1" id="Titus.3.1"/><sup>1</sup>Put them in mind to be in subjection to rulers, to authorities, to be obedient, to be ready unto every good work, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Titus.3.2" data-parsed="Titus_3_2_0_0" data-passage="Titus 3.2" id="Titus.3.2"/><sup>2</sup>to speak evil of no man,
not to be contentious, to be gentle, showing all meekness toward all men.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Titus.3.3" data-parsed="Titus_3_3_0_0" data-passage="Titus 3.3" id="Titus.3.3"/><sup>3</sup>For we also once were foolish, disobedient, deceived, serving divers lusts and pleasures, living in malice and envy, hateful, hating one another.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Titus.3.4" data-parsed="Titus_3_4_0_0" data-passage="Titus 3.4" id="Titus.3.4"/><sup>4</sup>But when the kindness of God our Saviour, and his love toward man,
appeared, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Titus.3.5" data-parsed="Titus_3_5_0_0" data-passage="Titus 3.5" id="Titus.3.5"/><sup>5</sup>not by works <i>done</i> in righteousness, which we did ourselves, but according to his mercy he saved us, through the washing of regeneration and renewing of the Holy Spirit, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Titus.3.6" data-parsed="Titus_3_6_0_0" data-passage="Titus 3.6" id="Titus.3.6"/><sup>6</sup>which he poured out upon us richly, through Jesus Christ our Saviour; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Titus.3.7" data-parsed="Titus_3_7_0_0" data-passage="Titus 3.7" id="Titus.3.7"/><sup>7</sup>that, being justified by his grace, we might be made heirs according to the hope of eternal life.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Titus.3.8" data-parsed="Titus_3_8_0_0" data-passage="Titus 3.8" id="Titus.3.8"/><sup>8</sup>Faithful is the saying, and concerning these things I desire that thou affirm confidently, to the end that they who have believed God may be careful to maintain good works. These things are good and profitable unto men:

<span data-osisref="Bible:Titus.3.9" data-parsed="Titus_3_9_0_0" data-passage="Titus 3.9" id="Titus.3.9"/><sup>9</sup>but shun foolish questionings, and genealogies, and strifes, and fightings about law; for they are unprofitable and vain. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Titus.3.10" data-parsed="Titus_3_10_0_0" data-passage="Titus 3.10" id="Titus.3.10"/><sup>10</sup>A factious man after a first and second admonition refuse; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Titus.3.11" data-parsed="Titus_3_11_0_0" data-passage="Titus 3.11" id="Titus.3.11"/><sup>11</sup>knowing that such a one is perverted, and sinneth, being self-condemned. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Titus.3.12" data-parsed="Titus_3_12_0_0" data-passage="Titus 3.12" id="Titus.3.12"/><sup>12</sup>When I shall send Artemas unto thee, or Tychicus, give diligence to come unto me to Nicopolis: for there I have determined to winter. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Titus.3.13" data-parsed="Titus_3_13_0_0" data-passage="Titus 3.13" id="Titus.3.13"/><sup>13</sup>Set forward Zenas the lawyer and Apollos on their journey diligently, that nothing be wanting unto them.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Titus.3.14" data-parsed="Titus_3_14_0_0" data-passage="Titus 3.14" id="Titus.3.14"/><sup>14</sup>And let our <i>people</i> also learn to maintain good works for necessary uses, that they be not unfruitful. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Titus.3.15" data-parsed="Titus_3_15_0_0" data-passage="Titus 3.15" id="Titus.3.15"/><sup>15</sup>All that are with me salute thee. Salute them that love us in faith. Grace be with you all.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>