<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Zechariah 10</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Zechariah 10</span></div><div data-next="Zech.11" data-prev="Zech.9" data-progress="76.88%" data-shorttitle="" id="Zech.10" title="Zechariah 10">
<h2 id="Zech.10-p0.1">10</h2>
<p id="Zech.10-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Zech.10.1" data-parsed="Zech_10_1_0_0" data-passage="Zech 10.1" id="Zech.10.1"/><sup>1</sup>Ask ye of Jehovah rain in the time of the latter rain, <i>even of</i> Jehovah that maketh lightnings; and he will give them showers of rain,
to every one grass in the field. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Zech.10.2" data-parsed="Zech_10_2_0_0" data-passage="Zech 10.2" id="Zech.10.2"/><sup>2</sup>For the teraphim have spoken vanity,
and the diviners have seen a lie; and they have told false dreams, they comfort in vain: therefore they go their way like sheep, they are afflicted,
because there is no shepherd. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Zech.10.3" data-parsed="Zech_10_3_0_0" data-passage="Zech 10.3" id="Zech.10.3"/><sup>3</sup>Mine anger is kindled against the shepherds, and I will punish the he-goats; for Jehovah of hosts hath visited his flock, the house of Judah, and will make them as his goodly horse in the battle. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Zech.10.4" data-parsed="Zech_10_4_0_0" data-passage="Zech 10.4" id="Zech.10.4"/><sup>4</sup>From him shall come forth the corner-stone, from him the nail,
from him the battle bow, from him every ruler together. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Zech.10.5" data-parsed="Zech_10_5_0_0" data-passage="Zech 10.5" id="Zech.10.5"/><sup>5</sup>And they shall be as mighty men, treading down <i>their enemies</i> in the mire of the streets in the battle; and they shall fight, because Jehovah is with them;
and the riders on horses shall be confounded. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Zech.10.6" data-parsed="Zech_10_6_0_0" data-passage="Zech 10.6" id="Zech.10.6"/><sup>6</sup>And I will strengthen the house of Judah, and I will save the house of Joseph, and I will bring them back; for I have mercy upon them; and they shall be as though I had not cast them off: for I am Jehovah their God, and I will hear them. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Zech.10.7" data-parsed="Zech_10_7_0_0" data-passage="Zech 10.7" id="Zech.10.7"/><sup>7</sup>And <i>they of</i> Ephraim shall be like a mighty man, and their heart shall rejoice as through wine; yea, their children shall see it, and rejoice; their heart shall be glad in Jehovah. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Zech.10.8" data-parsed="Zech_10_8_0_0" data-passage="Zech 10.8" id="Zech.10.8"/><sup>8</sup>I will hiss for them, and gather them; for I have redeemed them; and they shall increase as they have increased. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Zech.10.9" data-parsed="Zech_10_9_0_0" data-passage="Zech 10.9" id="Zech.10.9"/><sup>9</sup>And I will sow them among the peoples; and they shall remember me in far countries; and they shall live with their children, and shall return. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Zech.10.10" data-parsed="Zech_10_10_0_0" data-passage="Zech 10.10" id="Zech.10.10"/><sup>10</sup>I will bring them again also out of the land of Egypt, and gather them out of Assyria; and I will bring them into the land of Gilead and Lebanon; and <i>place</i> shall not be found for them. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Zech.10.11" data-parsed="Zech_10_11_0_0" data-passage="Zech 10.11" id="Zech.10.11"/><sup>11</sup>And he will pass through the sea of affliction, and will smite the waves in the sea, and all the depths of the Nile shall dry up; and the pride of Assyria shall be brought down, and the sceptre of Egypt shall depart. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Zech.10.12" data-parsed="Zech_10_12_0_0" data-passage="Zech 10.12" id="Zech.10.12"/><sup>12</sup>And I will strengthen them in Jehovah; and they shall walk up and down in his name, saith Jehovah.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>