<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Zechariah 13</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Zechariah 13</span></div><div data-next="Zech.14" data-prev="Zech.12" data-progress="77.04%" data-shorttitle="" id="Zech.13" title="Zechariah 13">
<h2 id="Zech.13-p0.1">13</h2>
<p id="Zech.13-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Zech.13.1" data-parsed="Zech_13_1_0_0" data-passage="Zech 13.1" id="Zech.13.1"/><sup>1</sup>In that day there shall be a fountain opened to the house of David and to the inhabitants of Jerusalem, for sin and for uncleanness. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Zech.13.2" data-parsed="Zech_13_2_0_0" data-passage="Zech 13.2" id="Zech.13.2"/><sup>2</sup>And it shall come to pass in that day, saith Jehovah of hosts, that I will cut off the names of the idols out of the land, and they shall no more be remembered;
and also I will cause the prophets and the unclean spirit to pass out of the land. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Zech.13.3" data-parsed="Zech_13_3_0_0" data-passage="Zech 13.3" id="Zech.13.3"/><sup>3</sup>And it shall come to pass that, when any shall yet prophesy, then his father and his mother that begat him shall say unto him, Thou shalt not live; for thou speakest lies in the name of Jehovah; and his father and his mother that begat him shall thrust him through when he prophesieth. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Zech.13.4" data-parsed="Zech_13_4_0_0" data-passage="Zech 13.4" id="Zech.13.4"/><sup>4</sup>And it shall come to pass in that day, that the prophets shall be ashamed every one of his vision, when he prophesieth; neither shall they wear a hairy mantle to deceive: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Zech.13.5" data-parsed="Zech_13_5_0_0" data-passage="Zech 13.5" id="Zech.13.5"/><sup>5</sup>but he shall say, I am no prophet, I am a tiller of the ground; for I have been made a bondman from my youth. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Zech.13.6" data-parsed="Zech_13_6_0_0" data-passage="Zech 13.6" id="Zech.13.6"/><sup>6</sup>And one shall say unto him, What are these wounds between thine arms? Then he shall answer,
Those with which I was wounded in the house of my friends. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Zech.13.7" data-parsed="Zech_13_7_0_0" data-passage="Zech 13.7" id="Zech.13.7"/><sup>7</sup>Awake, O sword, against my shepherd, and against the man that is my fellow, saith Jehovah of hosts: smite the shepherd, and the sheep shall be scattered; and I will turn my hand upon the little ones. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Zech.13.8" data-parsed="Zech_13_8_0_0" data-passage="Zech 13.8" id="Zech.13.8"/><sup>8</sup>And it shall come to pass, that in all the land, saith Jehovah, two parts therein shall be cut off and die;
but the third shall be left therein. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Zech.13.9" data-parsed="Zech_13_9_0_0" data-passage="Zech 13.9" id="Zech.13.9"/><sup>9</sup>And I will bring the third part into the fire, and will refine them as silver is refined, and will try them as gold is tried. They shall call on my name, and I will hear them: I will say, It is my people; and they shall say, Jehovah is my God.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>