<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Zechariah 8</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Zechariah 8</span></div><div data-next="Zech.9" data-prev="Zech.7" data-progress="76.73%" data-shorttitle="" id="Zech.8" title="Zechariah 8">
<h2 id="Zech.8-p0.1">8</h2>
<p id="Zech.8-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Zech.8.1" data-parsed="Zech_8_1_0_0" data-passage="Zech 8.1" id="Zech.8.1"/><sup>1</sup>And the word of Jehovah of hosts came <i>to me</i>, saying,

<span data-osisref="Bible:Zech.8.2" data-parsed="Zech_8_2_0_0" data-passage="Zech 8.2" id="Zech.8.2"/><sup>2</sup>Thus saith Jehovah of hosts: I am jealous for Zion with great jealousy,
and I am jealous for her with great wrath. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Zech.8.3" data-parsed="Zech_8_3_0_0" data-passage="Zech 8.3" id="Zech.8.3"/><sup>3</sup>Thus saith Jehovah: I am returned unto Zion, and will dwell in the midst of Jerusalem: and Jerusalem shall be called The city of truth; and the mountain of Jehovah of hosts, The holy mountain. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Zech.8.4" data-parsed="Zech_8_4_0_0" data-passage="Zech 8.4" id="Zech.8.4"/><sup>4</sup>Thus saith Jehovah of hosts: There shall yet old men and old women dwell in the streets of Jerusalem, every man with his staff in his hand for very age. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Zech.8.5" data-parsed="Zech_8_5_0_0" data-passage="Zech 8.5" id="Zech.8.5"/><sup>5</sup>And the streets of the city shall be full of boys and girls playing in the streets thereof. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Zech.8.6" data-parsed="Zech_8_6_0_0" data-passage="Zech 8.6" id="Zech.8.6"/><sup>6</sup>Thus saith Jehovah of hosts: If it be marvellous in the eyes of the remnant of this people in those days, should it also be marvellous in mine eyes? saith Jehovah of hosts. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Zech.8.7" data-parsed="Zech_8_7_0_0" data-passage="Zech 8.7" id="Zech.8.7"/><sup>7</sup>Thus saith Jehovah of hosts: Behold, I will save my people from the east country, and from the west country; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Zech.8.8" data-parsed="Zech_8_8_0_0" data-passage="Zech 8.8" id="Zech.8.8"/><sup>8</sup>and I will bring them, and they shall dwell in the midst of Jerusalem; and they shall be my people, and I will be their God,
in truth and in righteousness. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Zech.8.9" data-parsed="Zech_8_9_0_0" data-passage="Zech 8.9" id="Zech.8.9"/><sup>9</sup>Thus saith Jehovah of hosts: Let your hands be strong, ye that hear in these days these words from the mouth of the prophets that were in the day that the foundation of the house of Jehovah of hosts was laid, even the temple, that it might be built. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Zech.8.10" data-parsed="Zech_8_10_0_0" data-passage="Zech 8.10" id="Zech.8.10"/><sup>10</sup>For before those days there was no hire for man, nor any hire for beast; neither was there any peace to him that went out or came in, because of the adversary:
for I set all men every one against his neighbor. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Zech.8.11" data-parsed="Zech_8_11_0_0" data-passage="Zech 8.11" id="Zech.8.11"/><sup>11</sup>But now I will not be unto the remnant of this people as in the former days, saith Jehovah of hosts. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Zech.8.12" data-parsed="Zech_8_12_0_0" data-passage="Zech 8.12" id="Zech.8.12"/><sup>12</sup>For <i>there shall be</i> the seed of peace; the vine shall give its fruit, and the ground shall give its increase, and the heavens shall give their dew; and I will cause the remnant of this people to inherit all these things. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Zech.8.13" data-parsed="Zech_8_13_0_0" data-passage="Zech 8.13" id="Zech.8.13"/><sup>13</sup>And it shall come to pass that, as ye were a curse among the nations, O house of Judah and house of Israel, so will I save you, and ye shall be a blessing. Fear not, <i>but</i> let your hands be strong.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Zech.8.14" data-parsed="Zech_8_14_0_0" data-passage="Zech 8.14" id="Zech.8.14"/><sup>14</sup>For thus saith Jehovah of hosts: As I thought to do evil unto you, when your fathers provoked me to wrath, saith Jehovah of hosts, and I repented not; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Zech.8.15" data-parsed="Zech_8_15_0_0" data-passage="Zech 8.15" id="Zech.8.15"/><sup>15</sup>so again have I thought in these days to do good unto Jerusalem and to the house of Judah: fear ye not. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Zech.8.16" data-parsed="Zech_8_16_0_0" data-passage="Zech 8.16" id="Zech.8.16"/><sup>16</sup>These are the things that ye shall do: speak ye every man the truth with his neighbor; execute the judgment of truth and peace in your gates; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Zech.8.17" data-parsed="Zech_8_17_0_0" data-passage="Zech 8.17" id="Zech.8.17"/><sup>17</sup>and let none of you devise evil in your hearts against his neighbor; and love no false oath: for all these are things that I hate, saith Jehovah. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Zech.8.18" data-parsed="Zech_8_18_0_0" data-passage="Zech 8.18" id="Zech.8.18"/><sup>18</sup>And the word of Jehovah of hosts came unto me, saying, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Zech.8.19" data-parsed="Zech_8_19_0_0" data-passage="Zech 8.19" id="Zech.8.19"/><sup>19</sup>Thus saith Jehovah of hosts: The fast of the fourth <i>month</i>, and the fast of the fifth, and the fast of the seventh, and the fast of the tenth, shall be to the house of Judah joy and gladness, and cheerful feasts; therefore love truth and peace. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Zech.8.20" data-parsed="Zech_8_20_0_0" data-passage="Zech 8.20" id="Zech.8.20"/><sup>20</sup>Thus saith Jehovah of hosts: <i>It shall</i> yet <i>come to pass</i>, that there shall come peoples, and the inhabitants of many cities; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Zech.8.21" data-parsed="Zech_8_21_0_0" data-passage="Zech 8.21" id="Zech.8.21"/><sup>21</sup>and the inhabitants of one <i>city</i> shall go to another, saying, Let us go speedily to entreat the favor of Jehovah, and to seek Jehovah of hosts: I will go also. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Zech.8.22" data-parsed="Zech_8_22_0_0" data-passage="Zech 8.22" id="Zech.8.22"/><sup>22</sup>Yea, many peoples and strong nations shall come to seek Jehovah of hosts in Jerusalem, and to entreat the favor of Jehovah.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Zech.8.23" data-parsed="Zech_8_23_0_0" data-passage="Zech 8.23" id="Zech.8.23"/><sup>23</sup>Thus saith Jehovah of hosts: In those days <i>it shall come to pass</i>, that ten men shall take hold, out of all the languages of the nations, they shall take hold of the skirt of him that is a Jew, saying, We will go with you, for we have heard that God is with you.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>