<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Zechariah 9</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Zechariah 9</span></div><div data-next="Zech.10" data-prev="Zech.8" data-progress="76.81%" data-shorttitle="" id="Zech.9" title="Zechariah 9">
<h2 id="Zech.9-p0.1">9</h2>
<p id="Zech.9-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Zech.9.1" data-parsed="Zech_9_1_0_0" data-passage="Zech 9.1" id="Zech.9.1"/><sup>1</sup>The burden of the word of Jehovah upon the land of Hadrach, and Damascus <i>shall be</i> its resting-place (for the eye of man and of all the tribes of Israel is toward Jehovah); 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Zech.9.2" data-parsed="Zech_9_2_0_0" data-passage="Zech 9.2" id="Zech.9.2"/><sup>2</sup>and Hamath, also, which bordereth thereon; Tyre and Sidon, because they are very wise. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Zech.9.3" data-parsed="Zech_9_3_0_0" data-passage="Zech 9.3" id="Zech.9.3"/><sup>3</sup>And Tyre did build herself a stronghold, and heaped up silver as the dust, and fine gold as the mire of the streets. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Zech.9.4" data-parsed="Zech_9_4_0_0" data-passage="Zech 9.4" id="Zech.9.4"/><sup>4</sup>Behold, the Lord will dispossess her,
and he will smite her power in the sea; and she shall be devoured with fire.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Zech.9.5" data-parsed="Zech_9_5_0_0" data-passage="Zech 9.5" id="Zech.9.5"/><sup>5</sup>Ashkelon shall see it, and fear; Gaza also, and shall be sore pained;
and Ekron, for her expectation shall be put to shame; and the king shall perish from Gaza, and Ashkelon shall not be inhabited. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Zech.9.6" data-parsed="Zech_9_6_0_0" data-passage="Zech 9.6" id="Zech.9.6"/><sup>6</sup>And a bastard shall dwell in Ashdod, and I will cut off the pride of the Philistines.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Zech.9.7" data-parsed="Zech_9_7_0_0" data-passage="Zech 9.7" id="Zech.9.7"/><sup>7</sup>And I will take away his blood out of his mouth, and his abominations from between his teeth; and he also shall be a remnant for our God; and he shall be as a chieftain in Judah, and Ekron as a Jebusite. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Zech.9.8" data-parsed="Zech_9_8_0_0" data-passage="Zech 9.8" id="Zech.9.8"/><sup>8</sup>And I will encamp about my house against the army, that none pass through or return; and no oppressor shall pass through them any more: for now have I seen with mine eyes. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Zech.9.9" data-parsed="Zech_9_9_0_0" data-passage="Zech 9.9" id="Zech.9.9"/><sup>9</sup>Rejoice greatly, O daughter of Zion; shout, O daughter of Jerusalem: behold, thy king cometh unto thee; he is just, and having salvation; lowly, and riding upon an ass, even upon a colt the foal of an ass. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Zech.9.10" data-parsed="Zech_9_10_0_0" data-passage="Zech 9.10" id="Zech.9.10"/><sup>10</sup>And I will cut off the chariot from Ephraim, and the horse from Jerusalem; and the battle bow shall be cut off; and he shall speak peace unto the nations: and his dominion shall be from sea to sea, and from the River to the ends of the earth. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Zech.9.11" data-parsed="Zech_9_11_0_0" data-passage="Zech 9.11" id="Zech.9.11"/><sup>11</sup>As for thee also, because of the blood of thy covenant I have set free thy prisoners from the pit wherein is no water.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Zech.9.12" data-parsed="Zech_9_12_0_0" data-passage="Zech 9.12" id="Zech.9.12"/><sup>12</sup>Turn you to the stronghold, ye prisoners of hope: even to-day do I declare that I will render double unto thee. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Zech.9.13" data-parsed="Zech_9_13_0_0" data-passage="Zech 9.13" id="Zech.9.13"/><sup>13</sup>For I have bent Judah for me, I have filled the bow with Ephraim; and I will stir up thy sons, O Zion,
against thy sons, O Greece, and will make thee as the sword of a mighty man.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Zech.9.14" data-parsed="Zech_9_14_0_0" data-passage="Zech 9.14" id="Zech.9.14"/><sup>14</sup>And Jehovah shall be seen over them; and his arrow shall go forth as the lightning; and the Lord Jehovah will blow the trumpet, and will go with whirlwinds of the south. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Zech.9.15" data-parsed="Zech_9_15_0_0" data-passage="Zech 9.15" id="Zech.9.15"/><sup>15</sup>Jehovah of hosts will defend them; and they shall devour, and shall tread down the sling-stones; and they shall drink,
and make a noise as through wine; and they shall be filled like bowls, like the corners of the altar. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Zech.9.16" data-parsed="Zech_9_16_0_0" data-passage="Zech 9.16" id="Zech.9.16"/><sup>16</sup>And Jehovah their God will save them in that day as the flock of his people; for <i>they shall be as</i> the stones of a crown, lifted on high over his land. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Zech.9.17" data-parsed="Zech_9_17_0_0" data-passage="Zech 9.17" id="Zech.9.17"/><sup>17</sup>For how great is his goodness, and how great is his beauty! grain shall make the young men flourish, and new wine the virgins.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>