<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Zechariah 2</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Zechariah 2</span></div><div data-next="Zech.3" data-prev="Zech.1" data-progress="76.47%" data-shorttitle="" id="Zech.2" title="Zechariah 2">
<h2 id="Zech.2-p0.1">2</h2>
<p id="Zech.2-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Zech.2.1" data-parsed="Zech_2_1_0_0" data-passage="Zech 2.1" id="Zech.2.1"/><sup>1</sup>And I lifted up mine eyes, and saw, and, behold, a man with a measuring line in his hand. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Zech.2.2" data-parsed="Zech_2_2_0_0" data-passage="Zech 2.2" id="Zech.2.2"/><sup>2</sup>Then said I, Whither goest thou? And he said unto me, To measure Jerusalem, to see what is the breadth thereof, and what is the length thereof. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Zech.2.3" data-parsed="Zech_2_3_0_0" data-passage="Zech 2.3" id="Zech.2.3"/><sup>3</sup>And, behold, the angel that talked with me went forth, and another angel went out to meet him, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Zech.2.4" data-parsed="Zech_2_4_0_0" data-passage="Zech 2.4" id="Zech.2.4"/><sup>4</sup>and said unto him, Run,
speak to this young man, saying, Jerusalem shall be inhabited as villages without walls, by reason of the multitude of men and cattle therein. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Zech.2.5" data-parsed="Zech_2_5_0_0" data-passage="Zech 2.5" id="Zech.2.5"/><sup>5</sup>For I, saith Jehovah, will be unto her a wall of fire round about, and I will be the glory in the midst of her. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Zech.2.6" data-parsed="Zech_2_6_0_0" data-passage="Zech 2.6" id="Zech.2.6"/><sup>6</sup>Ho, ho, flee from the land of the north,
saith Jehovah; for I have spread you abroad as the four winds of the heavens,
saith Jehovah. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Zech.2.7" data-parsed="Zech_2_7_0_0" data-passage="Zech 2.7" id="Zech.2.7"/><sup>7</sup>Ho Zion, escape, thou that dwellest with the daughter of Babylon. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Zech.2.8" data-parsed="Zech_2_8_0_0" data-passage="Zech 2.8" id="Zech.2.8"/><sup>8</sup>For thus saith Jehovah of hosts: After glory hath he sent me unto the nations which plundered you; for he that toucheth you toucheth the apple of his eye. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Zech.2.9" data-parsed="Zech_2_9_0_0" data-passage="Zech 2.9" id="Zech.2.9"/><sup>9</sup>For, behold, I will shake my hand over them, and they shall be a spoil to those that served them; and ye shall know that Jehovah of hosts hath sent me. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Zech.2.10" data-parsed="Zech_2_10_0_0" data-passage="Zech 2.10" id="Zech.2.10"/><sup>10</sup>Sing and rejoice, O daughter of Zion; for, lo, I come, and I will dwell in the midst of thee, saith Jehovah. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Zech.2.11" data-parsed="Zech_2_11_0_0" data-passage="Zech 2.11" id="Zech.2.11"/><sup>11</sup>And many nations shall join themselves to Jehovah in that day, and shall be my people;
and I will dwell in the midst of thee, and thou shalt know that Jehovah of hosts has sent me unto thee. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Zech.2.12" data-parsed="Zech_2_12_0_0" data-passage="Zech 2.12" id="Zech.2.12"/><sup>12</sup>And Jehovah shall inherit Judah as his portion in the holy land, and shall yet choose Jerusalem. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Zech.2.13" data-parsed="Zech_2_13_0_0" data-passage="Zech 2.13" id="Zech.2.13"/><sup>13</sup>Be silent,
all flesh, before Jehovah; for he is waked up out of his holy habitation.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>