<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Zechariah 11</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Zechariah 11</span></div><div data-next="Zech.12" data-prev="Zech.10" data-progress="76.93%" data-shorttitle="" id="Zech.11" title="Zechariah 11">
<h2 id="Zech.11-p0.1">11</h2>
<p id="Zech.11-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Zech.11.1" data-parsed="Zech_11_1_0_0" data-passage="Zech 11.1" id="Zech.11.1"/><sup>1</sup>Open thy doors, O Lebanon, that the fire may devour thy cedars.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Zech.11.2" data-parsed="Zech_11_2_0_0" data-passage="Zech 11.2" id="Zech.11.2"/><sup>2</sup>Wail, O fir-tree, for the cedar is fallen, because the goodly ones are destroyed: wail, O ye oaks of Bashan, for the strong forest is come down.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Zech.11.3" data-parsed="Zech_11_3_0_0" data-passage="Zech 11.3" id="Zech.11.3"/><sup>3</sup>A voice of the wailing of the shepherds! for their glory is destroyed: a voice of the roaring of young lions! for the pride of the Jordan is laid waste. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Zech.11.4" data-parsed="Zech_11_4_0_0" data-passage="Zech 11.4" id="Zech.11.4"/><sup>4</sup>Thus said Jehovah my God: Feed the flock of slaughter; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Zech.11.5" data-parsed="Zech_11_5_0_0" data-passage="Zech 11.5" id="Zech.11.5"/><sup>5</sup>whose possessors slay them, and hold themselves not guilty; and they that sell them say, Blessed be Jehovah, for I am rich; and their own shepherds pity them not. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Zech.11.6" data-parsed="Zech_11_6_0_0" data-passage="Zech 11.6" id="Zech.11.6"/><sup>6</sup>For I will no more pity the inhabitants of the land, saith Jehovah;
but, lo, I will deliver the men every one into his neighbor's hand, and into the hand of his king; and they shall smite the land, and out of their hand I will not deliver them. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Zech.11.7" data-parsed="Zech_11_7_0_0" data-passage="Zech 11.7" id="Zech.11.7"/><sup>7</sup>So I fed the flock of slaughter, verily the poor of the flock. And I took unto me two staves; the one I called Beauty, and the other I called Bands; and I fed the flock. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Zech.11.8" data-parsed="Zech_11_8_0_0" data-passage="Zech 11.8" id="Zech.11.8"/><sup>8</sup>And I cut off the three shepherds in one month; for my soul was weary of them, and their soul also loathed me. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Zech.11.9" data-parsed="Zech_11_9_0_0" data-passage="Zech 11.9" id="Zech.11.9"/><sup>9</sup>Then said I, I will not feed you: that which dieth, let it die; and that which is to be cut off, let it be cut off; and let them that are left eat every one the flesh of another. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Zech.11.10" data-parsed="Zech_11_10_0_0" data-passage="Zech 11.10" id="Zech.11.10"/><sup>10</sup>And I took my staff Beauty, and cut it asunder, that I might break my covenant which I had made with all the peoples. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Zech.11.11" data-parsed="Zech_11_11_0_0" data-passage="Zech 11.11" id="Zech.11.11"/><sup>11</sup>And it was broken in that day; and thus the poor of the flock that gave heed unto me knew that it was the word of Jehovah.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Zech.11.12" data-parsed="Zech_11_12_0_0" data-passage="Zech 11.12" id="Zech.11.12"/><sup>12</sup>And I said unto them, If ye think good, give me my hire; and if not,
forbear. So they weighed for my hire thirty <i>pieces</i> of silver.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Zech.11.13" data-parsed="Zech_11_13_0_0" data-passage="Zech 11.13" id="Zech.11.13"/><sup>13</sup>And Jehovah said unto me, Cast it unto the potter, the goodly price that I was prized at by them. And I took the thirty <i>pieces</i> of silver,
and cast them unto the potter, in the house of Jehovah. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Zech.11.14" data-parsed="Zech_11_14_0_0" data-passage="Zech 11.14" id="Zech.11.14"/><sup>14</sup>Then I cut asunder mine other staff, even Bands, that I might break the brotherhood between Judah and Israel. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Zech.11.15" data-parsed="Zech_11_15_0_0" data-passage="Zech 11.15" id="Zech.11.15"/><sup>15</sup>And Jehovah said unto me, Take unto thee yet again the instruments of a foolish shepherd. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Zech.11.16" data-parsed="Zech_11_16_0_0" data-passage="Zech 11.16" id="Zech.11.16"/><sup>16</sup>For, lo, I will raise up a shepherd in the land, who will not visit those that are cut off, neither will seek those that are scattered, nor heal that which is broken, nor feed that which is sound; but he will eat the flesh of the fat <i>sheep</i>, and will tear their hoofs in pieces. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Zech.11.17" data-parsed="Zech_11_17_0_0" data-passage="Zech 11.17" id="Zech.11.17"/><sup>17</sup>Woe to the worthless shepherd that leaveth the flock! the sword shall be upon his arm, and upon his right eye: his arm shall be clean dried up, and his right eye shall be utterly darkened.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>