<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Zechariah 6</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Zechariah 6</span></div><div data-next="Zech.7" data-prev="Zech.5" data-progress="76.63%" data-shorttitle="" id="Zech.6" title="Zechariah 6">
<h2 id="Zech.6-p0.1">6</h2>
<p id="Zech.6-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Zech.6.1" data-parsed="Zech_6_1_0_0" data-passage="Zech 6.1" id="Zech.6.1"/><sup>1</sup>And again I lifted up mine eyes, and saw, and, behold, there came four chariots out from between two mountains; and the mountains were mountains of brass. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Zech.6.2" data-parsed="Zech_6_2_0_0" data-passage="Zech 6.2" id="Zech.6.2"/><sup>2</sup>In the first chariot were red horses; and in the second chariot black horses; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Zech.6.3" data-parsed="Zech_6_3_0_0" data-passage="Zech 6.3" id="Zech.6.3"/><sup>3</sup>and in the third chariot white horses; and in the fourth chariot grizzled strong horses. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Zech.6.4" data-parsed="Zech_6_4_0_0" data-passage="Zech 6.4" id="Zech.6.4"/><sup>4</sup>Then I answered and said unto the angel that talked with me, What are these, my lord? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Zech.6.5" data-parsed="Zech_6_5_0_0" data-passage="Zech 6.5" id="Zech.6.5"/><sup>5</sup>And the angel answered and said unto me, These are the four winds of heaven, which go forth from standing before the Lord of all the earth. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Zech.6.6" data-parsed="Zech_6_6_0_0" data-passage="Zech 6.6" id="Zech.6.6"/><sup>6</sup><i>The chariot</i> wherein are the black horses goeth forth toward the north country; and the white went forth after them; and the grizzled went forth toward the south country. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Zech.6.7" data-parsed="Zech_6_7_0_0" data-passage="Zech 6.7" id="Zech.6.7"/><sup>7</sup>And the strong went forth, and sought to go that they might walk to and fro through the earth: and he said, Get you hence, walk to and fro through the earth. So they walked to and fro through the earth. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Zech.6.8" data-parsed="Zech_6_8_0_0" data-passage="Zech 6.8" id="Zech.6.8"/><sup>8</sup>Then cried he to me, and spake unto me, saying, Behold, they that go toward the north country have quieted my spirit in the north country.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Zech.6.9" data-parsed="Zech_6_9_0_0" data-passage="Zech 6.9" id="Zech.6.9"/><sup>9</sup>And the word of Jehovah came unto me, saying, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Zech.6.10" data-parsed="Zech_6_10_0_0" data-passage="Zech 6.10" id="Zech.6.10"/><sup>10</sup>Take of them of the captivity, even of Heldai, of Tobijah, and of Jedaiah; and come thou the same day, and go into the house of Josiah the son of Zephaniah, whither they are come from Babylon; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Zech.6.11" data-parsed="Zech_6_11_0_0" data-passage="Zech 6.11" id="Zech.6.11"/><sup>11</sup>yea, take <i>of them</i> silver and gold, and make crowns, and set them upon the head of Joshua the son of Jehozadak, the high priest; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Zech.6.12" data-parsed="Zech_6_12_0_0" data-passage="Zech 6.12" id="Zech.6.12"/><sup>12</sup>and speak unto him, saying, Thus speaketh Jehovah of hosts,
saying, Behold, the man whose name is the Branch: and he shall grow up out of his place; and he shall build the temple of Jehovah; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Zech.6.13" data-parsed="Zech_6_13_0_0" data-passage="Zech 6.13" id="Zech.6.13"/><sup>13</sup>even he shall build the temple of Jehovah; and he shall bear the glory, and shall sit and rule upon his throne; and he shall be a priest upon his throne; and the counsel of peace shall be between them both. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Zech.6.14" data-parsed="Zech_6_14_0_0" data-passage="Zech 6.14" id="Zech.6.14"/><sup>14</sup>And the crowns shall be to Helem, and to Tobijah, and to Jedaiah, and to Hen the son of Zephaniah, for a memorial in the temple of Jehovah. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Zech.6.15" data-parsed="Zech_6_15_0_0" data-passage="Zech 6.15" id="Zech.6.15"/><sup>15</sup>And they that are far off shall come and build in the temple of Jehovah; and ye shall know that Jehovah of hosts hath sent me unto you. And <i>this</i> shall come to pass, if ye will diligently obey the voice of Jehovah your God.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>