<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Zechariah 12</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Zechariah 12</span></div><div data-next="Zech.13" data-prev="Zech.11" data-progress="76.99%" data-shorttitle="" id="Zech.12" title="Zechariah 12">
<h2 id="Zech.12-p0.1">12</h2>
<p id="Zech.12-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Zech.12.1" data-parsed="Zech_12_1_0_0" data-passage="Zech 12.1" id="Zech.12.1"/><sup>1</sup>The burden of the word of Jehovah concerning Israel. <i>Thus</i>
saith Jehovah, who stretcheth forth the heavens, and layeth the foundation of the earth, and formeth the spirit of man within him: 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Zech.12.2" data-parsed="Zech_12_2_0_0" data-passage="Zech 12.2" id="Zech.12.2"/><sup>2</sup>behold, I will make Jerusalem a cup of reeling unto all the peoples round about, and upon Judah also shall it be in the siege against Jerusalem. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Zech.12.3" data-parsed="Zech_12_3_0_0" data-passage="Zech 12.3" id="Zech.12.3"/><sup>3</sup>And it shall come to pass in that day, that I will make Jerusalem a burdensome stone for all the peoples; all that burden themselves with it shall be sore wounded; and all the nations of the earth shall be gathered together against it. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Zech.12.4" data-parsed="Zech_12_4_0_0" data-passage="Zech 12.4" id="Zech.12.4"/><sup>4</sup>In that day, saith Jehovah, I will smite every horse with terror, and his rider with madness; and I will open mine eyes upon the house of Judah, and will smite every horse of the peoples with blindness. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Zech.12.5" data-parsed="Zech_12_5_0_0" data-passage="Zech 12.5" id="Zech.12.5"/><sup>5</sup>And the chieftains of Judah shall say in their heart, The inhabitants of Jerusalem are my strength in Jehovah of hosts their God. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Zech.12.6" data-parsed="Zech_12_6_0_0" data-passage="Zech 12.6" id="Zech.12.6"/><sup>6</sup>In that day will I make the chieftains of Judah like a pan of fire among wood, and like a flaming torch among sheaves;
and they shall devour all the peoples round about, on the right hand and on the left; and <i>they of</i> Jerusalem shall yet again dwell in their own place, even in Jerusalem. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Zech.12.7" data-parsed="Zech_12_7_0_0" data-passage="Zech 12.7" id="Zech.12.7"/><sup>7</sup>Jehovah also shall save the tents of Judah first, that the glory of the house of David and the glory of the inhabitants of Jerusalem be not magnified above Judah. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Zech.12.8" data-parsed="Zech_12_8_0_0" data-passage="Zech 12.8" id="Zech.12.8"/><sup>8</sup>In that day shall Jehovah defend the inhabitants of Jerusalem: and he that is feeble among them at that day shall be as David; and the house of David shall be as God, as the angel of Jehovah before them. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Zech.12.9" data-parsed="Zech_12_9_0_0" data-passage="Zech 12.9" id="Zech.12.9"/><sup>9</sup>And it shall come to pass in that day, that I will seek to destroy all the nations that come against Jerusalem. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Zech.12.10" data-parsed="Zech_12_10_0_0" data-passage="Zech 12.10" id="Zech.12.10"/><sup>10</sup>And I will pour upon the house of David, and upon the inhabitants of Jerusalem, the spirit of grace and of supplication; and they shall look unto me whom they have pierced; and they shall mourn for him, as one mourneth for his only son,
and shall be in bitterness for him, as one that is in bitterness for his first-born. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Zech.12.11" data-parsed="Zech_12_11_0_0" data-passage="Zech 12.11" id="Zech.12.11"/><sup>11</sup>In that day shall there be a great mourning in Jerusalem,
as the mourning of Hadadrimmon in the valley of Megiddon. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Zech.12.12" data-parsed="Zech_12_12_0_0" data-passage="Zech 12.12" id="Zech.12.12"/><sup>12</sup>And the land shall mourn, every family apart; the family of the house of David apart, and their wives apart; the family of the house of Nathan apart, and their wives apart; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Zech.12.13" data-parsed="Zech_12_13_0_0" data-passage="Zech 12.13" id="Zech.12.13"/><sup>13</sup>the family of the house of Levi apart, and their wives apart;
the family of the Shimeites apart, and their wives apart; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Zech.12.14" data-parsed="Zech_12_14_0_0" data-passage="Zech 12.14" id="Zech.12.14"/><sup>14</sup>all the families that remain, every family apart, and their wives apart.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>