<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Zechariah 3</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Zechariah 3</span></div><div data-next="Zech.4" data-prev="Zech.2" data-progress="76.51%" data-shorttitle="" id="Zech.3" title="Zechariah 3">
<h2 id="Zech.3-p0.1">3</h2>
<p id="Zech.3-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Zech.3.1" data-parsed="Zech_3_1_0_0" data-passage="Zech 3.1" id="Zech.3.1"/><sup>1</sup>And he showed me Joshua the high priest standing before the angel of Jehovah, and Satan standing at his right hand to be his adversary.

<span data-osisref="Bible:Zech.3.2" data-parsed="Zech_3_2_0_0" data-passage="Zech 3.2" id="Zech.3.2"/><sup>2</sup>And Jehovah said unto Satan, Jehovah rebuke thee, O Satan; yea, Jehovah that hath chosen Jerusalem rebuke thee: is not this a brand plucked out of the fire? 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Zech.3.3" data-parsed="Zech_3_3_0_0" data-passage="Zech 3.3" id="Zech.3.3"/><sup>3</sup>Now Joshua was clothed with filthy garments, and was standing before the angel. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Zech.3.4" data-parsed="Zech_3_4_0_0" data-passage="Zech 3.4" id="Zech.3.4"/><sup>4</sup>And he answered and spake unto those that stood before him, saying, Take the filthy garments from off him. And unto him he said,
Behold, I have caused thine iniquity to pass from thee, and I will clothe thee with rich apparel. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Zech.3.5" data-parsed="Zech_3_5_0_0" data-passage="Zech 3.5" id="Zech.3.5"/><sup>5</sup>And I said, Let them set a clean mitre upon his head. So they set a clean mitre upon his head, and clothed him with garments;
and the angel of Jehovah was standing by. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Zech.3.6" data-parsed="Zech_3_6_0_0" data-passage="Zech 3.6" id="Zech.3.6"/><sup>6</sup>And the angel of Jehovah protested unto Joshua, saying, 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Zech.3.7" data-parsed="Zech_3_7_0_0" data-passage="Zech 3.7" id="Zech.3.7"/><sup>7</sup>Thus saith Jehovah of hosts: If thou wilt walk in my ways, and if thou wilt keep my charge, then thou also shalt judge my house, and shalt also keep my courts, and I will give thee a place of access among these that stand by. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Zech.3.8" data-parsed="Zech_3_8_0_0" data-passage="Zech 3.8" id="Zech.3.8"/><sup>8</sup>Hear now, O Joshua the high priest,
thou and thy fellows that sit before thee; for they are men that are a sign:
for, behold, I will bring forth my servant the Branch. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Zech.3.9" data-parsed="Zech_3_9_0_0" data-passage="Zech 3.9" id="Zech.3.9"/><sup>9</sup>For, behold, the stone that I have set before Joshua; upon one stone are seven eyes: behold, I will engrave the graving thereof, saith Jehovah of hosts, and I will remove the iniquity of that land in one day. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Zech.3.10" data-parsed="Zech_3_10_0_0" data-passage="Zech 3.10" id="Zech.3.10"/><sup>10</sup>In that day, saith Jehovah of hosts, shall ye invite every man his neighbor under the vine and under the fig-tree.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>