<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Zephaniah 2</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Zephaniah 2</span></div><div data-next="Zeph.3" data-prev="Zeph.1" data-progress="76.12%" data-shorttitle="" id="Zeph.2" title="Zephaniah 2">
<h2 id="Zeph.2-p0.1">2</h2>
<p id="Zeph.2-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Zeph.2.1" data-parsed="Zeph_2_1_0_0" data-passage="Zeph 2.1" id="Zeph.2.1"/><sup>1</sup>Gather yourselves together, yea, gather together, O nation that hath no shame; 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Zeph.2.2" data-parsed="Zeph_2_2_0_0" data-passage="Zeph 2.2" id="Zeph.2.2"/><sup>2</sup>before the decree bring forth, <i>before</i> the day pass as the chaff, before the fierce anger of Jehovah come upon you, before the day of Jehovah's anger come upon you. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Zeph.2.3" data-parsed="Zeph_2_3_0_0" data-passage="Zeph 2.3" id="Zeph.2.3"/><sup>3</sup>Seek ye Jehovah, all ye meek of the earth, that have kept his ordinances; seek righteousness, seek meekness: it may be ye will be hid in the day of Jehovah's anger. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Zeph.2.4" data-parsed="Zeph_2_4_0_0" data-passage="Zeph 2.4" id="Zeph.2.4"/><sup>4</sup>For Gaza shall be forsaken, and Ashkelon a desolation; they shall drive out Ashdod at noonday, and Ekron shall be rooted up. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Zeph.2.5" data-parsed="Zeph_2_5_0_0" data-passage="Zeph 2.5" id="Zeph.2.5"/><sup>5</sup>Woe unto the inhabitants of the sea-coast, the nation of the Cherethites! The word of Jehovah is against you, O Canaan, the land of the Philistines; I will destroy thee, that there shall be no inhabitant. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Zeph.2.6" data-parsed="Zeph_2_6_0_0" data-passage="Zeph 2.6" id="Zeph.2.6"/><sup>6</sup>And the sea-coast shall be pastures, with cottages for shepherds and folds for flocks. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Zeph.2.7" data-parsed="Zeph_2_7_0_0" data-passage="Zeph 2.7" id="Zeph.2.7"/><sup>7</sup>And the coast shall be for the remnant of the house of Judah; they shall feed <i>their flocks</i> thereupon; in the houses of Ashkelon shall they lie down in the evening; for Jehovah their God will visit them, and bring back their captivity. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Zeph.2.8" data-parsed="Zeph_2_8_0_0" data-passage="Zeph 2.8" id="Zeph.2.8"/><sup>8</sup>I have heard the reproach of Moab, and the revilings of the children of Ammon, wherewith they have reproached my people, and magnified themselves against their border. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Zeph.2.9" data-parsed="Zeph_2_9_0_0" data-passage="Zeph 2.9" id="Zeph.2.9"/><sup>9</sup>Therefore as I live, saith Jehovah of hosts, the God of Israel, Surely Moab shall be as Sodom, and the children of Ammon as Gomorrah, a possession of nettles, and saltpits, and a perpetual desolation: the residue of my people shall make a prey of them, and the remnant of my nation shall inherit them. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Zeph.2.10" data-parsed="Zeph_2_10_0_0" data-passage="Zeph 2.10" id="Zeph.2.10"/><sup>10</sup>This shall they have for their pride, because they have reproached and magnified themselves against the people of Jehovah of hosts. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Zeph.2.11" data-parsed="Zeph_2_11_0_0" data-passage="Zeph 2.11" id="Zeph.2.11"/><sup>11</sup>Jehovah will be terrible unto them; for he will famish all the gods of the earth; and men shall worship him, every one from his place, even all the isles of the nations. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Zeph.2.12" data-parsed="Zeph_2_12_0_0" data-passage="Zeph 2.12" id="Zeph.2.12"/><sup>12</sup>Ye Ethiopians also, ye shall be slain by my sword. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Zeph.2.13" data-parsed="Zeph_2_13_0_0" data-passage="Zeph 2.13" id="Zeph.2.13"/><sup>13</sup>And he will stretch out his hand against the north, and destroy Assyria, and will make Nineveh a desolation, and dry like the wilderness. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Zeph.2.14" data-parsed="Zeph_2_14_0_0" data-passage="Zeph 2.14" id="Zeph.2.14"/><sup>14</sup>And herds shall lie down in the midst of her, all the beasts of the nations: both the pelican and the porcupine shall lodge in the capitals thereof; <i>their</i> voice shall sing in the windows; desolation shall be in the thresholds: for he hath laid bare the cedar-work. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Zeph.2.15" data-parsed="Zeph_2_15_0_0" data-passage="Zeph 2.15" id="Zeph.2.15"/><sup>15</sup>This is the joyous city that dwelt carelessly, that said in her heart, I am, and there is none besides me: how is she become a desolation, a place for beasts to lie down in! every one that passeth by her shall hiss, and wag his hand.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>