<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Zephaniah 3</title>
<link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div><div><span class="element-title" style="display: none;">Zephaniah 3</span></div><div data-next="Hag" data-prev="Zeph.2" data-progress="76.18%" data-shorttitle="" id="Zeph.3" title="Zephaniah 3">
<h2 id="Zeph.3-p0.1">3</h2>
<p id="Zeph.3-p1">
<span data-osisref="Bible:Zeph.3.1" data-parsed="Zeph_3_1_0_0" data-passage="Zeph 3.1" id="Zeph.3.1"/><sup>1</sup>Woe to her that is rebellious and polluted! to the oppressing city!
<span data-osisref="Bible:Zeph.3.2" data-parsed="Zeph_3_2_0_0" data-passage="Zeph 3.2" id="Zeph.3.2"/><sup>2</sup>She obeyed not the voice; she received not correction; she trusted not in Jehovah; she drew not near to her God. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Zeph.3.3" data-parsed="Zeph_3_3_0_0" data-passage="Zeph 3.3" id="Zeph.3.3"/><sup>3</sup>Her princes in the midst of her are roaring lions; her judges are evening wolves; they leave nothing till the morrow. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Zeph.3.4" data-parsed="Zeph_3_4_0_0" data-passage="Zeph 3.4" id="Zeph.3.4"/><sup>4</sup>Her prophets are light and treacherous persons; her priests have profaned the sanctuary, they have done violence to the law. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Zeph.3.5" data-parsed="Zeph_3_5_0_0" data-passage="Zeph 3.5" id="Zeph.3.5"/><sup>5</sup>Jehovah in the midst of her is righteous; he will not do iniquity; every morning doth he bring his justice to light, he faileth not; but the unjust knoweth no shame. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Zeph.3.6" data-parsed="Zeph_3_6_0_0" data-passage="Zeph 3.6" id="Zeph.3.6"/><sup>6</sup>I have cut off nations; their battlements are desolate; I have made their streets waste, so that none passeth by; their cities are destroyed, so that there is no man, so that there is no inhabitant. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Zeph.3.7" data-parsed="Zeph_3_7_0_0" data-passage="Zeph 3.7" id="Zeph.3.7"/><sup>7</sup>I said, Only fear thou me; receive correction; so her dwelling shall not be cut off, <i>according to</i> all that I have appointed concerning her: but they rose early and corrupted all their doings. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Zeph.3.8" data-parsed="Zeph_3_8_0_0" data-passage="Zeph 3.8" id="Zeph.3.8"/><sup>8</sup>Therefore wait ye for me, saith Jehovah, until the day that I rise up to the prey; for my determination is to gather the nations, that I may assemble the kingdoms, to pour upon them mine indignation, even all my fierce anger; for all the earth shall be devoured with the fire of my jealousy. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Zeph.3.9" data-parsed="Zeph_3_9_0_0" data-passage="Zeph 3.9" id="Zeph.3.9"/><sup>9</sup>For then will I turn to the peoples of a pure language, that they may all call upon the name of Jehovah, to serve him with one consent. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Zeph.3.10" data-parsed="Zeph_3_10_0_0" data-passage="Zeph 3.10" id="Zeph.3.10"/><sup>10</sup>From beyond the rivers of Ethiopia my suppliants, even the daughter of my dispersed, shall bring mine offering.
<span data-osisref="Bible:Zeph.3.11" data-parsed="Zeph_3_11_0_0" data-passage="Zeph 3.11" id="Zeph.3.11"/><sup>11</sup>In that day shalt thou not be put to shame for all thy doings, wherein thou hast transgressed against me; for then I will take away out of the midst of thee thy proudly exulting ones, and thou shalt no more be haughty in my holy mountain. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Zeph.3.12" data-parsed="Zeph_3_12_0_0" data-passage="Zeph 3.12" id="Zeph.3.12"/><sup>12</sup>But I will leave in the midst of thee an afflicted and poor people, and they shall take refuge in the name of Jehovah. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Zeph.3.13" data-parsed="Zeph_3_13_0_0" data-passage="Zeph 3.13" id="Zeph.3.13"/><sup>13</sup>The remnant of Israel shall not do iniquity, nor speak lies; neither shall a deceitful tongue be found in their mouth; for they shall feed and lie down, and none shall make them afraid. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Zeph.3.14" data-parsed="Zeph_3_14_0_0" data-passage="Zeph 3.14" id="Zeph.3.14"/><sup>14</sup>Sing, O daughter of Zion; shout, O Israel; be glad and rejoice with all the heart, O daughter of Jerusalem.
<span data-osisref="Bible:Zeph.3.15" data-parsed="Zeph_3_15_0_0" data-passage="Zeph 3.15" id="Zeph.3.15"/><sup>15</sup>Jehovah hath taken away thy judgments, he hath cast out thine enemy:
the King of Israel, even Jehovah, is in the midst of thee; thou shalt not fear evil any more. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Zeph.3.16" data-parsed="Zeph_3_16_0_0" data-passage="Zeph 3.16" id="Zeph.3.16"/><sup>16</sup>In that day it shall be said to Jerusalem, Fear thou not; O Zion, let not thy hands be slack. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Zeph.3.17" data-parsed="Zeph_3_17_0_0" data-passage="Zeph 3.17" id="Zeph.3.17"/><sup>17</sup>Jehovah thy God is in the midst of thee, a mighty one who will save; he will rejoice over thee with joy; he will rest in his love; he will joy over thee with singing. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Zeph.3.18" data-parsed="Zeph_3_18_0_0" data-passage="Zeph 3.18" id="Zeph.3.18"/><sup>18</sup>I will gather them that sorrow for the solemn assembly, who were of thee; <i>to whom</i> the burden upon her was a reproach. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Zeph.3.19" data-parsed="Zeph_3_19_0_0" data-passage="Zeph 3.19" id="Zeph.3.19"/><sup>19</sup>Behold, at that time I will deal with all them that afflict thee; and I will save that which is lame, and gather that which was driven away; and I will make them a praise and a name, whose shame hath been in all the earth. 
<span data-osisref="Bible:Zeph.3.20" data-parsed="Zeph_3_20_0_0" data-passage="Zeph 3.20" id="Zeph.3.20"/><sup>20</sup>At that time will I bring you in, and at that time will I gather you; for I will make you a name and a praise among all the peoples of the earth, when I bring back your captivity before your eyes, saith Jehovah.</p>
</div><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span><span class="buffer-hidden">  </span></div></body>
</html>